erc-8098.md, before:

---
erc: 8098
title: Non-increasing supply ERC-20
description: A fungible ERC-20 token with a strictly non-increasing total supply, enforced by irreversible burns and the absence of any minting capability after deployment.
author: TEN (@ten-io-meta) <ten.io.metaverse@gmail.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8098-zw-token-irreversible-supply-erc-20/26685
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-11-23
requires: ERC-20
---

## Abstract

This ERC introduces **ZW-Token**, a fungible token standard with **strictly non-increasing total supply** enforced by irreversible burns and the absence of any minting capability after deployment.

A **re-minting path** is any mechanism that can increase `totalSupply()` after deployment (including restoring previously burned units).  
A **synthetic mirror** is any parallel accounting system that replicates balances or supply semantics outside the token’s canonical ERC-20 state.

Optional privacy layers may be added via obfuscation techniques that do not create parallel balance or supply representations.

## Motivation

Most fungible ERC-20 tokens today allow:

- reclaimable burns,
- synthetic supply mirrors,
- wrapped abstractions introducing alternate supply states,
- and reversible minting mechanics.

These create fragmentation, mirrored supplies, and inconsistencies across layers.

**ZW-Token** targets use cases where supply finality itself is a core property. Reclaimable burns undermine the reliability of total supply as an invariant: if burned units can later be restored, supply becomes dependent on off-chain governance decisions, privileged roles, or future contract upgrades, complicating auditing and making it impossible to reason about supply monotonicity from on-chain state alone.

**ZW-Token** solves this by defining:

1. **Immutable Total Supply Constraint**  
   Burned units are permanently removed.

2. **Single-State Supply Representation**  
   No minting paths after burn events and no synthetic replicas.

3. **No Internal Supply Mirrors**  
   The token contract exposes a single canonical ERC-20 balance and supply state and does not implement internal wrapping, mirroring, or alternate accounting that changes supply semantics.

4. **Optional Privacy Without Supply Duplication**  
   Privacy is achieved only by obfuscation—not by creating hidden or mirrored balances.

## Specification

### 1. Irreversible Burn

Calling `burn(address from, uint256 amount)` MUST:

- reduce total supply permanently,  
- emit a `Transfer(from, address(0), amount)` event,  
- and ensure there is no mechanism in the token contract that can later restore burned supply.

### 2. No Re-Mint Path

Implementations MUST NOT provide any function capable of:

- increasing total supply after deployment,
- restoring burned units,
- or minting synthetic equivalents.

### 3. Single-State Value Representation

The ERC-8098 token contract MUST expose a single canonical ERC-20 balance and supply state and MUST NOT implement internal wrapping, mirroring, or alternate accounting mechanisms that change supply semantics.

External wrappers, third-party representations, or application-layer abstractions are out of scope.

### 4. Optional Privacy Layer

Privacy extensions MAY be included only if they:

- do not alter total supply,  
- do not create alternate supply trees,  
- and do not maintain synthetic or private mirrors.

## Rationale

This ERC does not introduce new interfaces; it standardizes strict invariants on top of ERC-20 behavior.

- Using the standard `Transfer(from, address(0), amount)` event for burns preserves ERC-20 compatibility and enables existing tooling to track supply reductions.
- Prohibiting any post-deployment supply-increasing mechanism ensures monotonicity of `totalSupply()` and makes the supply invariant auditable from on-chain state alone.
- Restricting the token contract to a single canonical accounting state avoids internal “mirror” designs that can obscure or duplicate supply semantics.

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC is fully backward compatible with ERC-20.  
Clients may treat ZW-Token as a standard ERC-20 with additional invariants.

## Security Considerations

Irreversible supply requires careful handling of:

- burn logic,
- prevention of hidden mint paths,
- prevention of synthetic re-issuance via upgradeability or privileged roles.

Implementers MUST guarantee that no upgrade path, proxy mechanism, or privileged control can introduce new minting functionality after deployment.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Clarify ERC-8098 conformance and supply invariants

erc-8098.md, after:

---
erc: 8098
title: Non-increasing supply ERC-20
description: A fungible ERC-20 token with a strictly non-increasing total supply, enforced by irreversible burns and the absence of any minting capability after deployment.
author: TEN (@ten-io-meta) <ten.io.metaverse@gmail.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8098-zw-token-irreversible-supply-erc-20/26685
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-11-23
requires: ERC-20
---

## Abstract

This ERC introduces **ZW-Token**, a fungible token standard with **strictly non-increasing total supply** enforced by irreversible burns and the absence of any minting capability after deployment.

A **re-minting path** is any mechanism that can increase `totalSupply()` after deployment (including restoring previously burned units).  
A **synthetic mirror** is any parallel accounting system that replicates balances or supply semantics outside the token’s canonical ERC-20 state.

Optional privacy layers may be added via obfuscation techniques that do not create parallel balance or supply representations.

## Motivation

Most fungible ERC-20 tokens today allow:

- reclaimable burns,
- synthetic supply mirrors,
- wrapped abstractions introducing alternate supply states,
- and reversible minting mechanics.

These create fragmentation, mirrored supplies, and inconsistencies across layers.

**ZW-Token** targets use cases where supply finality itself is a core property. Reclaimable burns undermine the reliability of total supply as an invariant: if burned units can later be restored, supply becomes dependent on off-chain governance decisions, privileged roles, or future contract upgrades, complicating auditing and making it impossible to reason about supply monotonicity from on-chain state alone.

**ZW-Token** solves this by defining:

1. **Immutable Total Supply Constraint**  
   Burned units are permanently removed.

2. **Single-State Supply Representation**  
   No minting paths after burn events and no synthetic replicas.

3. **No Internal Supply Mirrors**  
   The token contract exposes a single canonical ERC-20 balance and supply state and does not implement internal wrapping, mirroring, or alternate accounting that changes supply semantics.

4. **Optional Privacy Without Supply Duplication**  
   Privacy is achieved only by obfuscation—not by creating hidden or mirrored balances.

## Specification

### 1. Irreversible Burn

Calling `burn(address from, uint256 amount)` MUST:

- reduce total supply permanently,  
- emit a `Transfer(from, address(0), amount)` event,  
- and ensure there is no mechanism in the token contract that can later restore burned supply.

### 2. No Re-Mint Path

Implementations MUST NOT provide any function capable of:

- increasing total supply after deployment,
- restoring burned units,
- or minting synthetic equivalents.

### 3. Single-State Value Representation

The ERC-8098 token contract MUST expose a single canonical ERC-20 balance and supply state and MUST NOT implement internal wrapping, mirroring, or alternate accounting mechanisms that change supply semantics.

External wrappers, third-party representations, or application-layer abstractions are out of scope.

### 4. Optional Privacy Layer

Privacy extensions MAY be included only if they:

- do not alter total supply,  
- do not create alternate supply trees,  
- and do not maintain synthetic or private mirrors.

## Rationale

This ERC does not introduce new interfaces; it standardizes strict invariants on top of ERC-20 behavior.

- Using the standard `Transfer(from, address(0), amount)` event for burns preserves ERC-20 compatibility and enables existing tooling to track supply reductions.
- Prohibiting any post-deployment supply-increasing mechanism ensures monotonicity of `totalSupply()` and makes the supply invariant auditable from on-chain state alone.
- Restricting the token contract to a single canonical accounting state avoids internal “mirror” designs that can obscure or duplicate supply semantics.

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC is fully backward compatible with ERC-20.  
Clients may treat ZW-Token as a standard ERC-20 with additional invariants.

## Conformance

An ERC-20 token contract is ERC-8098 conformant if and only if:

1. After deployment, `totalSupply()` is monotonically non-increasing.
2. The token contract contains no mechanism that can increase `totalSupply()` after deployment, including minting, restoring burned units, or issuing equivalent substitute units.
3. Any burn operation permanently reduces `totalSupply()` and MUST emit `Transfer(from, address(0), amount)`.
4. The token contract’s internal accounting exposes a single canonical ERC-20 balance and supply state. External wrappers, third-party representations, and application-layer abstractions are out of scope.
5. If the token is upgradeable, it MUST be impossible for upgrades to introduce supply-increasing functionality after deployment.

## Security Considerations

Irreversible supply requires careful handling of:

- burn logic,
- prevention of hidden mint paths,
- prevention of synthetic re-issuance via upgradeability or privileged roles.

Implementers MUST guarantee that no upgrade path, proxy mechanism, or privileged control can introduce new minting functionality after deployment.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
