EIPS/eip-2711.md, before:

---
eip: 2711
title: Separate gas payer from msg.sender
author: Micah Zoltu (@MicahZoltu)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-2711-separate-gas-payer-from-msg-sender/4353
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-06-11
requires (*optional): 2718
---

## Simple Summary
Creates a new transaction type that allows for a second transaction signer who pays for gas, which is separate from the transaction signer who represents the `msg.sender` of the transaction.

## Abstract
An EIP-2718 transactions with the type number `1` is a transaction that includes an additional signature from which the account that will pay for gas (`GAS_PAYER`) can be recovered.  The transaction will otherwise operate the same as other transaction, except the `GAS_PAYER` will cover all gas costs, while the inner transaction signer will be the `msg.sender` for the transaction.

## Motivation
With the advent of tokens and especially stable coins, it has become common for users to not hold ETH in an account while they may have other assets of value in that account.  Some users don't want to be exposed to the perceived volatility of ETH and instead would prefer to transact using other assets.  Unfortunately, since gas **MUST** be paid for with ETH, this prevents the user from transacting with their assets without first acquiring some ETH using some other means, and then using that ETH to pay fees.

This EIP proposes a mechanism by which we can allow people to transact without ever having to own any ETH by allowing someone else to cover gas costs.  The arrangements that enable the covering of gas costs is out of scope for this EIP but it could be an extra-protocol monthly subscription, payment could occur as part of the transaction being submitted, the recpient may be willing to cover gas costs, or it could be a free service offered as a value-ad by a company that you are working with.

While it is possible to implement these sort of mechanisms at the individual contract layer, such solutions require integration by just about every contract and those solutions also end up depending on gas costs being stable with time in order to appropriately bake them into contracts without putting either party at risk of malicious participants in the system.  For this reason, it is deemed beneficial that separating out `GAS_PAYER` from `msg.sender` at the protocol layer is valuable.

## Specification
As of `FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER` an [EIP-2718](./eip-2718.md) transaction with a `TransactionType` of `1` will be interpreted as follows based on the value of the first item in the decoded RLP array:
* `[0, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, gasPrice, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`
* `[1, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasPrice, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`
* `[2, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasLimit, gasPrice, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`

`senderV, senderR, senderS` is a signature of an RLP array of the items preceding the sender signature items.  The address recovered from this signature is the address returned by the `CALLER` opcode (0x33, aka `msg.sender`) for the first level of the transaction, and the address whose `nonce` is used, and the address whose ETH is deducted if any value is attached to the transaction.
`gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS` is a signature of an RLP array of the items preceding the gas payer signature items.  The address recovered from this signature is the address returned by the `ORIGIN` opcode (0x32, aka `tx.origin`) for the transaction, and the address whose ETH balance the gas costs for the transaction are deducted from.

Both signatures for this transaction type have a `v` value that represents the parity of the `y` value of the secp256k1 signing process where `0` means `y` is even and `1` means `y` is odd.

If the `chainId` is `0` the transaction **MUST** be valid on all chains.  If the `chainId` is not `0` then the trnsaction **MUST NOT** be valid on any chain that doesn't have a matching `chainId`.

The base gas cost of transactions of this type will be `TBD`, rather than the base cost associated with transactions of type `0` and legacy transactions.

### Example
```
rlp([
	// EIP-2718 TransactionType
	1,
	[
		// EIP-2711 subtype
		1,
		// `SENDER` nonce
		3,
		// Destination of the transaction (`to` field)
		0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d,
		// ETH attached to the transaction (will be transferred from the `SENDER` to the `to`)
		0,
		// Data attached to the transaction (`data` field)
		0x,
		// Chain ID that the transaction is valid on.  Transaction is invalid on any other chain.
		1,
		// The maximum amount of gas that this transaction can use
		500000,
		// The `y` parity bit (known as `v`) of the `SENDER`s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1])`
		0,
		// The `r` value of the `SENDER`s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1])`
		0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef,
		// The `s` value of the `SENDER`s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1])`
		0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe,
		// The price per gas used by this transaction.
		1000000000,
		// The `y` parity bit (known as `v`) of the `SENDER`'s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1, 0, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])`
		1,
		// The `r` value of the `SENDER`'s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1, 0, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])`
		0xbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdead,
		// The `s` value of the `SENDER`'s signature of `rlp([0, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 500000, 1, 0, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])`
		0xbabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafe
	]
])
```

## Rationale
### ChainID not encoded with `v`
While we could save one byte in the common case by bundling the y-parity bit of the signature with the Chain ID like in EIP-155, this adds complexity to signing tools that the authors deem not worth it given the size (in bytes) of the transaction overall.
### ChainID 0
Sometimes it is useful to have a transaction that *can* be replayed on multiple chains.  An example of this is when you construct a vanity signature for a transaction and have the `from` be whatever address that signature recovers to.  With the ability to have someone else be a gas payer (setting both the gas limit and the gas price), one can have transactions that deploy contracts which live at the same address on every chain.  While this can be accomplished with CREATE2 using legacy transactions, we have the opportunity here to simplify the process and enable potentially other future uses of deterministic transactions by making ChainID optional.
### `SENDER` sets `gasLimit` and `gasPrice`
This type of transaction is useful when the transaction may execute differently depending on what these values are set to.  By having the `SENDER` set both, we ensure that the `SENDER` has full control over the transaction details.
### `SENDER` sets `gasLimit`, `GAS_PAYER` sets `gasPrice`
This type of transaction is useful when the transaction may execute differently depending on how much gas it is allowed (e.g., number of loops) but where the `SENDER` would like to give the `GAS_PAYER` the ability to price the transaction to maximize chances of inclusion.
### `GAS_PAYER` sets `gasLimit` and `gasPrice`
This type of transaction allows the `SENDER` to define what they want to do, and leaves all worry about gas to the `GAS_PAYER`.  This is useful for transactions where the sender doesn't care how much gas is used or the price that is paid and also either trusts the `GAS_PAYER` to be non-malicious or doesn't care if the `SENDER`'s nonce is increased.  Such situations are useful when you have extra-protocol trust between the `SENDER` and `GAS_PAYER` and you want to separate concerns (what to do vs how to get included) for security or complexity reasons.
### Nonces
The inner transaction needs a nonce to protect themselves from replay attacks.  Since the inner transaction has a nonce, we get replay protection on the outer transaction as well, so it is not critical for security to have multiple parties provide a nonce.

We could have the `GAS_PAYER` provide a second nonce, but this would increase the payload size and require `GAS_PAYER` to do replace-by-fee (noisy for gossip) if they want to slip in a new (different inner) transaction with a higher gas price.  It would also create the possibility of a deadlock if the `SENDER` nonces aren't ordered the same as the `GAS_PAYER` nonces, and if the `SENDER` nonce isn't the lowest valid nonce for the `SENDER` then the `GAS_PAYER` can't sign and submit yet.  Finally, client complexity increases slightly if a transaction has two nonces because you have to protect yourself from deadlocks and do more work to determine validity.

## Backwards Compatibility
The `ORIGIN` opcode currently has a note in the Yellow Paper that reads:
> This is the sender of original transaction; it is never an account withnon-empty associated code.

The "sender of the original transaction" is a bit more ambiguous as of this EIP.  While we call the account whose `nonce` is used and whose ETH balance `value` is withdrawn from the `SENDER`, that is merely a colloquiale term and no longer normative as of this EIP since a transaction of this type has two signers.  It is possible that there are deployed contracts who expect `ORIGIN` to be the same as the `CALLER` of the first call frame, and that would no longer be true for these transactions.

## Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other EIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any EIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the EIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->

## Security Considerations
<!--All EIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. EIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An EIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Automatically merged updates to draft EIP(s) 2711 (#2736)
Hi, I'm a bot! This change was automatically merged because:

 - It only modifies existing Draft or Last Call EIP(s)
 - The PR was approved or written by at least one author of each modified EIP
 - The build is passing

EIPS/eip-2711.md, after:

---
eip: 2711
title: Separate gas payer from msg.sender
author: Micah Zoltu (@MicahZoltu)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-2711-separate-gas-payer-from-msg-sender/4353
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-06-11
requires (*optional): 2718
---

## Simple Summary
Creates a new transaction type that allows for a second transaction signer who pays for gas, which is separate from the transaction signer who represents the `msg.sender` of the transaction.

## Abstract
An EIP-2718 transactions with the type number `1` is a transaction that includes an additional signature from which the account that will pay for gas (`GAS_PAYER`) can be recovered.  The transaction will otherwise operate the same as other transaction, except the `GAS_PAYER` will cover all gas costs, while the inner transaction signer will be the `msg.sender` for the transaction.

## Motivation
With the advent of tokens and especially stable coins, it has become common for users to not hold ETH in an account while they may have other assets of value in that account.  Some users don't want to be exposed to the perceived volatility of ETH and instead would prefer to transact using other assets.  Unfortunately, since gas **MUST** be paid for with ETH, this prevents the user from transacting with their assets without first acquiring some ETH using some other means, and then using that ETH to pay fees.

This EIP proposes a mechanism by which we can allow people to transact without ever having to own any ETH by allowing someone else to cover gas costs.  The arrangements that enable the covering of gas costs is out of scope for this EIP but it could be an extra-protocol monthly subscription, payment could occur as part of the transaction being submitted, the recpient may be willing to cover gas costs, or it could be a free service offered as a value-ad by a company that you are working with.

While it is possible to implement these sort of mechanisms at the individual contract layer, such solutions require integration by just about every contract and those solutions also end up depending on gas costs being stable with time in order to appropriately bake them into contracts without putting either party at risk of malicious participants in the system.  For this reason, it is deemed beneficial that separating out `GAS_PAYER` from `msg.sender` at the protocol layer is valuable.

## Specification
As of `FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER` an [EIP-2718](./eip-2718.md) transaction with a `TransactionType` of `1` will be interpreted as follows based on the value of the first item in the decoded RLP array:
* `[0, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, gasPrice, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`
* `[1, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasPrice, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`
* `[2, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasLimit, gasPrice, gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS]`

Where `senderPayload` is one of:
1. `[0, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, gasPrice]`
2. `[1, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit]`
3. `[2, nonce, to, value, data, chainId]`

`senderV, senderR, senderS` is the result of `secp256k1(senderPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp(senderPayload)])))`.  The address recovered from this signature is the address...
1. ...returned by the `CALLER` opcode (0x33, aka `msg.sender`) for the first level of the transaction
2. ...returned by the `ORIGIN` opcode (0x32, aka `tx.origin`)
3. ...whose `nonce` is used
4. ...whose ETH balance is deducted if any value is attached to the transaction.

Where `gasPayerPayload` is one of:
1. `[0, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, gasPrice, senderV, senderR, senderS]
2. `[1, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, gasLimit, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasPrice]
3. `[2, nonce, to, value, data, chainId, senderV, senderR, senderS, gasLimit, gasPrice]`

`gasPayerV, gasPayerR, gasPayerS` is the result of `secp256k1(gasPayerPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp(gasPayerPayload)])))`  The address recovered from this signature is the address...
1. ...whose ETH balance is deducted to pay for gas

For both signatures, the `v` value (`senderV` and `gasPayerV`) represents the parity of the `y` value of the secp256k1 signing process where `0` means `y` is even and `1` means `y` is odd.

If the `chainId` is `0` the transaction **MUST** be valid on all chains.  If the `chainId` is not `0` then the trnsaction **MUST NOT** be valid on any chain that doesn't have a matching `chainId`.

The base gas cost of transactions of this type will be `TBD`, rather than the base cost associated with transactions of type `0` and legacy transactions.

### Example
```
rlp([
	// EIP-2718 TransactionType
	1,
	[
		// EIP-2711 subtype
		1,
		// `SENDER` nonce
		3,
		// Destination of the transaction (`to` field)
		0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d,
		// ETH attached to the transaction (will be transferred from the `SENDER` to the `to`)
		0,
		// Data attached to the transaction (`data` field)
		0x,
		// Chain ID that the transaction is valid on.  Transaction is invalid on any other chain.
		1,
		// The maximum amount of gas that this transaction can use
		500000,
		// secp256k1(senderPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000])]))).yParity
		0,
		// secp256k1(senderPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000])]))).r
		0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef,
		// secp256k1(senderPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000])]))).s
		0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe,
		// The price per gas used by this transaction.
		1000000000,
		// secp256k1(gasPayerPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])]))).yParity
		1,
		// secp256k1(gasPayerPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])]))).r
		0xbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdead,
		// secp256k1(gasPayerPrivateKey, keccak256(rlp([1, rlp([1, 3, 0xbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00dbaadf00d, 0, 0x, 1, 500000, 0xdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeefdeadbeef, 0xcafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabe, 1000000000])]))).s
		0xbabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafebabecafe
	]
])
```

## Rationale
### ChainID not encoded with `v`
While we could save one byte in the common case by bundling the y-parity bit of the signature with the Chain ID like in EIP-155, this adds complexity to signing tools that the authors deem not worth it given the size (in bytes) of the transaction overall.
### ChainID 0
Sometimes it is useful to have a transaction that *can* be replayed on multiple chains.  An example of this is when you construct a vanity signature for a transaction and have the `from` be whatever address that signature recovers to.  With the ability to have someone else be a gas payer (setting both the gas limit and the gas price), one can have transactions that deploy contracts which live at the same address on every chain.  While this can be accomplished with CREATE2 using legacy transactions, we have the opportunity here to simplify the process and enable potentially other future uses of deterministic transactions by making ChainID optional.
### `SENDER` sets `gasLimit` and `gasPrice`
This type of transaction is useful when the transaction may execute differently depending on what these values are set to.  By having the `SENDER` set both, we ensure that the `SENDER` has full control over the transaction details.
### `SENDER` sets `gasLimit`, `GAS_PAYER` sets `gasPrice`
This type of transaction is useful when the transaction may execute differently depending on how much gas it is allowed (e.g., number of loops) but where the `SENDER` would like to give the `GAS_PAYER` the ability to price the transaction to maximize chances of inclusion.
### `GAS_PAYER` sets `gasLimit` and `gasPrice`
This type of transaction allows the `SENDER` to define what they want to do, and leaves all worry about gas to the `GAS_PAYER`.  This is useful for transactions where the sender doesn't care how much gas is used or the price that is paid and also either trusts the `GAS_PAYER` to be non-malicious or doesn't care if the `SENDER`'s nonce is increased.  Such situations are useful when you have extra-protocol trust between the `SENDER` and `GAS_PAYER` and you want to separate concerns (what to do vs how to get included) for security or complexity reasons.
### Nonces
The inner transaction needs a nonce to protect themselves from replay attacks.  Since the inner transaction has a nonce, we get replay protection on the outer transaction as well, so it is not critical for security to have multiple parties provide a nonce.

We could have the `GAS_PAYER` provide a second nonce, but this would increase the payload size and require `GAS_PAYER` to do replace-by-fee (noisy for gossip) if they want to slip in a new (different inner) transaction with a higher gas price.  It would also create the possibility of a deadlock if the `SENDER` nonces aren't ordered the same as the `GAS_PAYER` nonces, and if the `SENDER` nonce isn't the lowest valid nonce for the `SENDER` then the `GAS_PAYER` can't sign and submit yet.  Finally, client complexity increases slightly if a transaction has two nonces because you have to protect yourself from deadlocks and do more work to determine validity.

## Backwards Compatibility
No known issues.

## Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other EIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any EIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the EIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->

## Security Considerations
<!--All EIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. EIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An EIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
