EIPS/eip-2070.md, before:

---
eip: 2070
title: "Hardfork Meta: Berlin"
author: Alex Beregszaszi (@axic)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/hardfork-meta-eip-2070-berlin-discussion/3561
type: Meta
status: Draft
created: 2019-05-20
requires: 1679
---

## Abstract

This meta-EIP specifies the changes included in the Ethereum hardfork named Berlin.

## Specification

- Codename: Berlin
- Activation: TBD

### Included EIPs

- TBD

### Accepted EIPs

- TBD

### Tentatively Accepted EIPs

- [EIP-663](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-663): Unlimited SWAP and DUP instructions
- [EIP-1057](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1057): ProgPoW, a Programmatic
  Proof-of-Work
  - There is a
    [pending audit](https://medium.com/ethereum-cat-herders/progpow-audit-goals-expectations-75bb902a1f01),
    above and beyond standard security considerations, that should be evaluated
    prior to inclusion.
- [EIP-1380](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1380): Reduced gas cost for call to self
- [EIP-1702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1702): Generalized account versioning scheme
- [EIP-1962](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1962): EC arithmetic and pairings with runtime definitions
  - replaces EIP-1829
- [EIP-1985](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1985): Sane limits for certain EVM parameters
- [EIP-2045](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2045): Particle gas costs for EVM opcodes
- [EIP-2046](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2046): Reduced gas cost for static calls made to precompiles

### Proposed EIPs

- TBD

## Timeline

- TBD

## References

- TBD

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Automatically merged updates to draft EIP(s) 2070 (#2589)
Hi, I'm a bot! This change was automatically merged because:

 - It only modifies existing Draft or Last Call EIP(s)
 - The PR was approved or written by at least one author of each modified EIP
 - The build is passing

EIPS/eip-2070.md, after:

---
eip: 2070
title: "Hardfork Meta: Berlin"
author: Alex Beregszaszi (@axic)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/hardfork-meta-eip-2070-berlin-discussion/3561
type: Meta
status: Draft
created: 2019-05-20
requires: 1679
---

## Abstract

This meta-EIP specifies the changes included in the Ethereum hardfork named Berlin.

## Specification

- Codename: Berlin
- Activation: TBD

### Included EIPs

- TBD

### Accepted EIPs

- [EIP 2315](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/2576): Simple Subroutines for the EVM 
- [EIP 2537](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/2537): BLS12-381 curve operations

### Proposed EIPs

- [EIP 2046](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2046): Reduced gas cost for static calls made to precompiles
- [EIP 2565](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2565): Repricing of the EIP-198 ModExp precompile

## Timeline

(Proposed)
- June 02nd - June 04th : Testnets
- July : Mainnet

## References

- Tracking [EFI](https://github.com/orgs/ethereum/projects/5)
- ACD meeting [notes 85](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/ee277386af75621c48923f9740e4913ee241cd05/All%20Core%20Devs%20Meetings/Meeting%2085.md)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
