EIPS/eip-831.md, before:

## Preamble

    EIP: 831
    Title: URL Format for Ethereum
    Author: ligi <ligi@ligi.de>
    Type: Standard Track
    Category: ERC
    Status: Draft
    Created: 2018-01-15

## Simple Summary

A standard way of creating Ethereum URLs for various use-cases.

## Abstract

URLs embedded in QR-codes, hyperlinks in web-pages, emails or chat messages provide for robust cross-application signaling between very loosely coupled applications. A standardized URL format allows for instant invocation of the user's preferred wallet application.

## Specification

### Syntax

Ethereum URLs contain "ethereum" in their schema (protocol) part and are constructed as follows:

    request                 = "ethereum" ":" [ prefix "-" ] payload
    prefix                  = STRING
    payload                 = STRING

### Semantics

`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URL. If no prefix is given "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to ERC-67.

`payload` is mandatory and the content depends on the prefix. Structuring of the content is defined in the ERC for the specific use-case and not in the scope of this document. One example is ERC-681 for the pay- prefix.


## Rationale

The need for this ERC emerged when refining ERC-681. We need a container that does not carry the weight of the use-cases. ERC-67 was the first standard defining Ethereum-URLs - this ERC tries to keep backward compatibibility and not break existing flows. This means ERC-67 URLs should still be valid and readable. But if the prefix feature is used - ERC-67 parsers might break.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Fix a problem with separating prefixes from payload

EIPS/eip-831.md, after:

## Preamble

    EIP: 831
    Title: URL Format for Ethereum
    Author: ligi <ligi@ligi.de>
    Type: Standard Track
    Category: ERC
    Status: Draft
    Created: 2018-01-15

## Simple Summary

A standard way of creating Ethereum URLs for various use-cases.

## Abstract

URLs embedded in QR-codes, hyperlinks in web-pages, emails or chat messages provide for robust cross-application signaling between very loosely coupled applications. A standardized URL format allows for instant invocation of the user's preferred wallet application.

## Specification

### Syntax

Ethereum URLs contain "ethereum" in their schema (protocol) part and are constructed as follows:

    request                 = "ethereum" ":" [ prefix "-" ] payload
    prefix                  = STRING
    payload                 = STRING

### Semantics

`prefix` is optional and defines the use-case for this URL. If no prefix is given: "pay-" is assumed to be concise and ensure backward compatibility to ERC-67. When the prefix is omitted - the payload must start with `0x`. Also prefixes must not start with `0x`. So starting with `0x` can be used as a clear signal that there is no prefix.

`payload` is mandatory and the content depends on the prefix. Structuring of the content is defined in the ERC for the specific use-case and not in the scope of this document. One example is ERC-681 for the pay- prefix.


## Rationale

The need for this ERC emerged when refining ERC-681. We need a container that does not carry the weight of the use-cases. ERC-67 was the first attempt on defining Ethereum-URLs - this ERC tries to keep backward compatibibility and not break existing flows. This means ERC-67 URLs should still be valid and readable. But if the prefix feature is used - ERC-67 parsers might break.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
