EIPS/eip-1352.md, before:

---
eip: 1352
title: Specify restricted address range for precompiles/system contracts
author: Alex Beregszaszi (axic)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-1352-specify-restricted-address-range-for-precompiles-system-contracts/1151
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2018-07-27
---

## Simple Summary
Specify an Ethereum address range occupied by precompiles and future system contracts. Regular accounts and contracts cannot obtain such an address.

## Abstract
The address range between 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 and 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000ffff is reserved for precompiles and system contracts.

## Motivation
This will simplify certain future features where unless this is implemented, several exceptions must be specified.

## Specification
The address range between 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 and 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000ffff is reserved for precompiles and system contracts.

If a contract creation (as a result of a create transaction or a `CREATE` opcode) results in an address within this range, then it is rejected.

## Rationale
N/A

## Backwards Compatibility
No contracts on the main network have been created at the specified addresses. As a result it should pose no backwards compatibility problems.

## Test Cases
N/A

## Implementation
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Do not require explicit checks for clashing addresses

EIPS/eip-1352.md, after:

---
eip: 1352
title: Specify restricted address range for precompiles/system contracts
author: Alex Beregszaszi (axic)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-1352-specify-restricted-address-range-for-precompiles-system-contracts/1151
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2018-07-27
---

## Simple Summary
Specify an Ethereum address range occupied by precompiles and future system contracts. Regular accounts and contracts cannot obtain such an address.

## Abstract
The address range between 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 and 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000ffff is reserved for precompiles and system contracts.

## Motivation
This will simplify certain future features where unless this is implemented, several exceptions must be specified.

## Specification
The address range between 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 and 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000ffff is reserved for precompiles and system contracts.

Due to the extremely low probability (and lack of adequate testing possibilities) no explicit checks should be added to ensure that external transaction signing or
the invoking of the `CREATE` instruction can result in a precompile address.

## Rationale
N/A

## Backwards Compatibility
No contracts on the main network have been created at the specified addresses. As a result it should pose no backwards compatibility problems.

## Test Cases
N/A

## Implementation
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
