EIPS/eip-1328.md, before:

---
eip: 1328
title: WalletConnect Standard URI Format
author: ligi <ligi@ligi.de>, Pedro Gomes <pedrouid@protonmail.com>
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft
created: 2018-08-15
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/wallet-connect-eip/850
requires: 831
---

## Simple Summary

A standard to create WalletConnect URIs for establishing connections between wallets and applications.

## Abstract

This standard defines how the data to connect some application and a wallet can be encoded with a URI. This URI can then be shown either as a QR code or for mobile to mobile as a link.

## Specification

### Syntax

Function call URIs follow the ERC-831 URI format, with the following parameters:

    request       = "ethereum" ":" [ "wc-" ]sessionId [ "@" version ][ "?" parameters ]
    sessionId     = STRING
    version       = 1*DIGIT
    parameters    = parameter *( "&" parameter )
    parameter     = key "=" value
    key           = "name" / "bridge" / "symKey"
    value         = NUMBER / STRING

### Semantics

Required parameters are dependent on the WalletConnect standard version which currently is specified to only include mobile-to-desktop connection sessions which only require `name` which describes the dapp name, `bridge` which includes the bridge URL, `symKey` which includes the symmetric key in base64.

### Example

```
ethereum:wc-8a5e5bdc-a0e4-4702-ba63-8f1a5655744f@1?name=DappExample&bridge=https://bridge.example.com&symKey=KzpSTk1pezg5eTJRNmhWJmoxdFo6UDk2WlhaOyQ5N0U=
```

## Rationale

The need for this ERC stems from the discussion to move away from JSON format used in current beta version of the WalletConnect standard which makes for very inneficient parsing of the intent of the QR code, making it easier to create better QR code parsers APIs for Wallets to implement for other compatible EIPs using the ERC-831 URI format for Ethereum. Also by using a URI instead of a JSON inside the QR-Code the Android Intent system can be leveraged.

## References

1.  ERC-831, http://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-831

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Automatically merged updates to draft EIP(s) 1328
Hi, I'm a bot! This change was automatically merged because:

 - It only modifies existing Draft or Last Call EIP(s)
 - The PR was approved or written by at least one author of each modified EIP
 - The build is passing

EIPS/eip-1328.md, after:

---
eip: 1328
title: WalletConnect Standard URI Format
author: ligi <ligi@ligi.de>, Pedro Gomes <pedrouid@protonmail.com>
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft
created: 2018-08-15
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/wallet-connect-eip/850
---

## Simple Summary

A standard to create WalletConnect URIs to initiate connections between applications and wallets.

## Abstract

This standard defines how the data to connect some application and a wallet can be encoded with a URI. This URI can then be shown either as a QR code or for mobile to mobile as a link.

## Specification

### Syntax

WalletConnect request URI with the following parameters:

    request       = "wc" ":" topic [ "@" version ][ "?" parameters ]
    topic         = STRING
    version       = 1*DIGIT
    parameters    = parameter *( "&" parameter )
    parameter     = key "=" value
    key           = "bridge" / "key"
    value         = STRING

### Semantics

Required parameters are dependent on the Walletconnect protocol version which currently includes the `key`, hex string of symmetric key, and `bridge`, encoded url of the bridge used for establishing the connection.

### Example

```
wc:8a5e5bdc-a0e4-4702-ba63-8f1a5655744f@1?bridge=https%3A%2F%2Fbridge.walletconnect.org&key=41791102999c339c844880b23950704cc43aa840f3739e365323cda4dfa89e7a
```

## Rationale

The need for this ERC stems from the discussion to move away from JSON format used in the alpha version of the WalletConnect protocol which makes for very inneficient parsing of the intent of the QR code, making it easier to create better QR code parsers APIs for Wallets to implement. Also by using a URI instead of a JSON inside the QR-Code the Android Intent system can be leveraged.

## References

1.  WalletConnect Technical Specification, https://docs.walletconnect.org/tech-spec

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
