EIPS/eip-1679.md, before:

---
eip: 1679
title: "Hardfork Meta: Istanbul"
author: Alex Beregszaszi (@axic), Afri Schoedon (@5chdn)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/hardfork-meta-istanbul-discussion/3207
type: Meta
status: Draft
created: 2019-01-04
requires: 1716
---

## Abstract

This meta-EIP specifies the changes included in the Ethereum hardfork named Istanbul.

## Specification

- Codename: Istanbul
- Activation: TBD

### Included EIPs

- TBD

### Accepted EIPs

- TBD

### Proposed EIPs

- [EIP-615](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-615): Subroutines and Static Jumps for the EVM
- [EIP-1057](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1057): ProgPoW, a Programmatic
  Proof-of-Work
  - There is a
    [pending audit](https://medium.com/ethereum-cat-herders/progpow-audit-goals-expectations-75bb902a1f01),
    above and beyond standard security considerations, that should be evaluated
    prior to inclusion.
- [EIP-1108](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1108): Reduce alt_bn128 precompile gas costs
- [EIP-1283](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1283): Net gas metering for SSTORE without dirty maps
- [EIP-1344](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1344): Add ChainID opcode
- [EIP-1352](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1352): Specify restricted address range for precompiles/system contracts
- [EIP-1380](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1380): Reduced gas cost for call to self
- [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559): Fee market change for ETH 1.0 chain
- [EIP-1965](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1965): Method to check if a chainID is valid at a specific block Number
- [EIP-1702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1702): Generalized account versioning scheme
- [EIP-1706](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1706): Disable SSTORE with gasleft lower than call stipend
- [EIP-1803](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1803): Rename opcodes for clarity
- [EIP-1829](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1829): Precompile for Elliptic Curve Linear Combinations
- [EIP-1884](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1884): Repricing for trie-size-dependent opcodes
- [EIP-1930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1930): CALLs with strict gas semantic. Revert if not enough gas available.
- [EIP-2028](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028): Calldata gas cost reduction

## Timeline

* 2019-05-17 (Fri) hard deadline to accept proposals for "Istanbul"
* 2019-07-19 (Fri) soft deadline for major client implementations
* 2019-08-14 (Wed) projected date for testnet network upgrade (Ropsten, Görli, or ad-hoc testnet)
* 2019-10-16 (Wed) projected date for mainnet upgrade ("Istanbul")

## References

- [Core Dev call notes](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/66#issuecomment-450840440) where timeline was proposed and accepted

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Reduced gas cost for static calls made to precompiles (#2046)
* Reduced gas cost for static calls made to precompiles

* Rename to EIP-2046

* Add discussion URL

* Add 2046 to Istanbul

* Fix header

EIPS/eip-1679.md, after:

---
eip: 1679
title: "Hardfork Meta: Istanbul"
author: Alex Beregszaszi (@axic), Afri Schoedon (@5chdn)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/hardfork-meta-istanbul-discussion/3207
type: Meta
status: Draft
created: 2019-01-04
requires: 1716
---

## Abstract

This meta-EIP specifies the changes included in the Ethereum hardfork named Istanbul.

## Specification

- Codename: Istanbul
- Activation: TBD

### Included EIPs

- TBD

### Accepted EIPs

- TBD

### Proposed EIPs

- [EIP-615](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-615): Subroutines and Static Jumps for the EVM
- [EIP-1057](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1057): ProgPoW, a Programmatic
  Proof-of-Work
  - There is a
    [pending audit](https://medium.com/ethereum-cat-herders/progpow-audit-goals-expectations-75bb902a1f01),
    above and beyond standard security considerations, that should be evaluated
    prior to inclusion.
- [EIP-1108](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1108): Reduce alt_bn128 precompile gas costs
- [EIP-1283](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1283): Net gas metering for SSTORE without dirty maps
- [EIP-1344](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1344): Add ChainID opcode
- [EIP-1352](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1352): Specify restricted address range for precompiles/system contracts
- [EIP-1380](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1380): Reduced gas cost for call to self
- [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559): Fee market change for ETH 1.0 chain
- [EIP-1965](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1965): Method to check if a chainID is valid at a specific block Number
- [EIP-1702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1702): Generalized account versioning scheme
- [EIP-1706](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1706): Disable SSTORE with gasleft lower than call stipend
- [EIP-1803](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1803): Rename opcodes for clarity
- [EIP-1829](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1829): Precompile for Elliptic Curve Linear Combinations
- [EIP-1884](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1884): Repricing for trie-size-dependent opcodes
- [EIP-1930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1930): CALLs with strict gas semantic. Revert if not enough gas available.
- [EIP-2028](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028): Calldata gas cost reduction
- [EIP-2046](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2046): Reduced gas cost for static calls made to precompiles

## Timeline

* 2019-05-17 (Fri) hard deadline to accept proposals for "Istanbul"
* 2019-07-19 (Fri) soft deadline for major client implementations
* 2019-08-14 (Wed) projected date for testnet network upgrade (Ropsten, Görli, or ad-hoc testnet)
* 2019-10-16 (Wed) projected date for mainnet upgrade ("Istanbul")

## References

- [Core Dev call notes](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/66#issuecomment-450840440) where timeline was proposed and accepted

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
