EIPS/eip-3382.md, before:

---
eip: 3382
title: Hardcoded Block Gas Limit
author: Philippe Castonguay (@PhABC)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3382-hardcoded-gas-limit
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-03-13
---

## Simple Summary

Hardcode the block gas limit (known as *block gas target* under [EIP-1559](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1559.md)) to `12,500,000` gas per block.

## Abstract

Ethereum's block gas limit is currently dictated by block producers and is not enforced when validating blocks in clients. This EIP proposes to hardcode the block gas limit to `12,500,000`.

## Motivation

Both Ethereum's Proof of Work and Proof of Stake designs assume that block producers are financially rational, but does not assume block producers to be benevolent. There is one exception however, and it is when block producers choose the gas limit of a block where it is assumed that block producers care about the long term health and decentralisation of the chain. Indeed, the block gas limit is one of the only parameters in Ethereum that is not dictated by node consensus, but instead is chosen by block producers. This decision was initially made to allow urgent changes in the block gas limit if necessary. Both drastically increasing or decreasing this parameter could have serious consequences that may not be desired. It is therefore a critical parameter that should require node consensus to avoid any sudden harmful change imposed by a small number of actors on the rest of the network.

## Specification
Refer to `gasLimit` as `gasTarget` post EIP-1559.

#### Added Consensus Constraint

As of `FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER`, the `header.gasLimit` **MUST** be equal to `BLOCK_GAS_LIMIT`, where `BLOCK_GAS_LIMIT` is a hardcoded constant set to `12,500,000`.

## Rationale

#### Keeping gasLimit in Block Headers

While it would be possible to remove the `gasLimit` field from block headers, it would change the data structure to be hashed, which could lead to unintended consequences. It is therefore easier to leave the gasLimit as part of block headers. 

#### Chosen Gas Limit

The `12,500,000` value is being proposed as it's the current block gas limit as of time of writing this EIP. The actual amount could be altered with a subsequent EIP to avoid deviating from the core intent of this EIP.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is backward compatible.

## Security Considerations
Rapid changes to the gas limit will likely be more difficult to execute, which could be problematic if an urgent situation arise that required changing the gas limit.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Automatically merged updates to draft EIP(s) 3382 (#3390)
Hi, I'm a bot! This change was automatically merged because:

 - It only modifies existing Draft, Review, or Last Call EIP(s)
 - The PR was approved or written by at least one author of each modified EIP
 - The build is passing

EIPS/eip-3382.md, after:

---
eip: 3382
title: Hardcoded Block Gas Limit
author: Philippe Castonguay (@PhABC)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3382-hardcoded-gas-limit
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-03-13
---

## Simple Summary

Hardcode the block gas limit to `12,500,000` gas per block.

## Abstract

Updates the block validation rules such that a block is invalid if the `gas_limit` header field is not equal to `12,500,000`.

## Motivation

Both Ethereum's Proof of Work and Proof of Stake designs assume that block producers are financially rational, but does not assume block producers to be benevolent. There is one exception however, and it is when block producers choose the gas limit of a block where it is assumed that block producers care about the long term health and decentralisation of the chain. Indeed, the block gas limit is one of the only parameters in Ethereum that is not dictated by node consensus, but instead is chosen by block producers. This decision was initially made to allow urgent changes in the block gas limit if necessary. Both drastically increasing or decreasing this parameter could have serious consequences that may not be desired. It is therefore a critical parameter that should require node consensus to avoid any sudden harmful change imposed by a small number of actors on the rest of the network.

## Specification
Refer to `gasLimit` as `gasTarget` post EIP-1559.

#### Added Consensus Constraint

As of `FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER`, the `header.gasLimit` **MUST** be equal to `BLOCK_GAS_LIMIT`, where `BLOCK_GAS_LIMIT` is a hardcoded constant set to `12,500,000`.

## Rationale

#### Keeping gasLimit in Block Headers

While it would be possible to remove the `gasLimit` field from block headers, it would change the data structure to be hashed, which could lead to unintended consequences. It is therefore easier to leave the gasLimit as part of block headers. 

#### Chosen Gas Limit

The `12,500,000` value is being proposed as it's the current block gas limit as of time of writing this EIP. The actual amount could be altered with a subsequent EIP to avoid deviating from the core intent of this EIP.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is backward compatible.

## Security Considerations
Rapid changes to the gas limit will likely be more difficult to execute, which could be problematic if an urgent situation arise that required changing the gas limit.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
