ERCS/erc-8063.md, before:

---
eip: 8063
title: Groups - Multi-Member Containers
description: Onchain groups with membership and direct member management.
author: James Savechives (@jamesavechives)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8063-groups-multi-member-onchain-containers-for-shared-resources/25999
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-28
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

This proposal specifies a general-purpose "Group" primitive as a first-class, onchain object. Each group is deployed as its own contract (identified by its contract address) and has an owner, an extensible set of members, and optional metadata. The standard defines a minimal interface for direct member management and membership introspection. Unlike token standards (e.g., [ERC-20](./eip-20.md)/[ERC-721](./eip-721.md)) that model units of transferable ownership, Groups model multi-party membership and coordination. The goal is to enable interoperable social, organizational, and collaborative primitives.

## Motivation

Tokens typically model ownership and transfer. Many applications instead need an addressable set of accounts with controlled join/leave semantics and shared state—e.g., project teams, DAOs, game parties, channels, or access cohorts. While [ERC-7743](./eip-7743.md) (MO-NFT) explores multi-ownership for a single token, it still anchors the abstraction to token semantics. Groups generalize this into a token-agnostic container where members can be added over time, without implying transfer or unitized ownership. Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) design pattern, each group is its own contract identified by its address. External resources (tokens, NFTs, etc.) can be associated with groups through their own contracts, just as they would with any EOA or contract address.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

Contracts that implement this standard MUST support [ERC-165](./eip-165.md).

### Interface

```solidity
/// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

interface IERC165 {
    function supportsInterface(bytes4 interfaceId) external view returns (bool);
}

/// @title IERC8063 — Minimal interface for onchain groups
/// @notice A group is a contract with an owner and members
interface IERC8063 is IERC165 {
    /// @dev Emitted when a member is added to the group
    event MemberAdded(address indexed account, address indexed by);

    /// @dev Emitted when a member voluntarily leaves the group
    event MemberLeft(address indexed account);

    /// @dev Emitted when a member transfers their membership to another address
    event MembershipTransferred(address indexed from, address indexed to);

    /// @notice Returns the owner of the group
    function owner() external view returns (address);

    /// @notice Returns the human-readable name of the group (may be empty)
    function name() external view returns (string memory);

    /// @notice Returns true if `account` is a member of the group
    function isMember(address account) external view returns (bool);

    /// @notice Returns current number of members (including owner)
    function getMemberCount() external view returns (uint256);

    /// @notice Owner adds an account as a member
    function addMember(address account) external;

    /// @notice Member voluntarily leaves the group (owner cannot leave)
    function leaveGroup() external;

    /// @notice Transfer membership to another address (caller loses membership)
    /// @param to Address to receive membership (must not already be a member)
    function transferMembership(address to) external;
}
```

### Semantics

- Group creation: Upon creation or initialization, the contract MUST set the deployer (or initializer) as the group owner and initial member. Implementations SHOULD accept a name and optional metadataURI.
- Adding members: Only the group owner MAY call `addMember`. The account MUST NOT already be a member. The implementation MUST add them as a member and emit `MemberAdded`.
- Leaving: Any member MAY call `leaveGroup` to voluntarily exit. The implementation MUST remove their membership and emit `MemberLeft`. The **current owner address** (i.e., `owner()` at the time of the call) MUST NOT be allowed to leave.
- Membership transfer: Any member (except the owner) MAY call `transferMembership` to transfer their membership to a non-member address. The caller MUST lose membership, the recipient MUST become a member, and `MembershipTransferred` MUST be emitted. Member count remains unchanged.
- Introspection: `supportsInterface` MUST return true for `type(IERC165).interfaceId` and for `type(IERC8063).interfaceId`.

### Deployment model

Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) pattern, each group is its own contract deployment:

- **Group identity**: A group is uniquely identified by its contract address, just as an ERC-20 token is identified by its contract address.
- **Deployment**: To create a group, deploy a new contract implementing `IERC8063`. The deployer becomes the owner and initial member.
- **Discovery**: Applications can discover groups through events, registries, or direct address references, similar to token discovery patterns.
- **Naming**: Implementations SHOULD accept a human-readable name in the constructor and expose it via `name()`. Empty names are permitted.

### Optional extensions (non-normative)

- Admin roles: Owner-delegated administrators that can add members.
- Multi-signature member addition: Require multiple approvals before adding members.
- Open groups: Allow anyone to join without owner approval.
- Transferable ownership: Allow the owner to transfer ownership to another member.
- Removal by governance: Implement member removal through voting or consensus mechanisms for specific use cases requiring expulsion.
- Factory contracts: A factory pattern for deploying groups with standardized initialization.
- Resource associations: External contracts (e.g., [ERC-20](./eip-20.md), [ERC-721](./eip-721.md)) MAY track group ownership or membership-based access using the group's contract address.

#### Ownership transfer

Some implementations may need standardized ownership handoff for management tooling (e.g., dashboards).
Implementations MAY add an ownership transfer extension with the following interface:

```solidity
interface IERC8063Ownership {
    event OwnershipTransferred(address indexed previousOwner, address indexed newOwner);
    function transferOwnership(address newOwner) external;
}
```

If implemented:

- Only the current `owner()` MUST be allowed to call `transferOwnership`.
- The `newOwner` MUST be a member after the transfer completes. Implementations MAY require `isMember(newOwner) == true` beforehand, or MAY add `newOwner` as a member during the transfer.
- The `leaveGroup()` restriction applies to the **current** `owner()` address (i.e., after ownership is transferred, the previous owner is no longer restricted by that rule).

#### ERC-20 compatibility (decimals=0)

Implementations MAY expose an [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) interface for group membership under the following constraints:

- `decimals()` MUST return `0`.
- `balanceOf(account)` MUST be either `0` (non-member) or `1` (member).
- `totalSupply()` MUST equal the current member count.
- `transfer(to, amount)` MUST require `amount == 1` and MUST transfer membership of the caller to `to`.
- `approve(spender, amount)` and `allowance(owner, spender)` MAY be implemented with values clamped to `{0,1}`; `transferFrom(from, to, amount)` MUST require `amount == 1` and, if permitted, MUST transfer membership from `from` to `to`.
- All operations MUST preserve the invariant that no account's balance exceeds `1` and MUST NOT allow the owner account to be transferred.

Reference: see the ERC-20 compatibility implementation in the assets directory.

Motivation (non-normative): exposing a constrained ERC-20 view can improve compatibility with existing tooling that already understands ERC-20 interfaces (e.g., wallet/portfolio displays, accounting/distribution utilities, and governance/gating systems that accept an ERC-20 address as a “membership token”). This mode is OPTIONAL and is intended as an adapter; it does not imply fungible-value semantics.

## Rationale

- **One contract per group**: Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) model where each token is its own contract creates a simpler, more composable design. The contract address becomes the natural group identifier.
- **Token-agnostic**: Separates membership from asset ownership/transfer semantics, suitable for social and coordination use cases.
- **Direct member management**: Owner can add members directly without invitation/acceptance flow, simplifying the interface and reducing transaction costs.
- **Voluntary exit only**: Members can leave voluntarily via `leaveGroup()` or transfer their position, but cannot be forcibly removed by the owner. This prevents centralization and ensures membership stability, similar to how ERC-20 token holders cannot have their tokens revoked.
- **Minimal surface**: Add members, voluntary leave, membership queries, and transfers are sufficient for broad interoperability while allowing richer policies via extensions.
- **Transferable membership**: Enables members to delegate or reassign their position without owner intervention, supporting use cases like account migration or role handoffs.
- **External resource model**: Resources (tokens, NFTs) can be associated with groups externally, just as they would with any address, avoiding tight coupling and enabling flexible composition.
- **Relationship to [ERC-7743](./eip-7743.md)**: MO-NFT models multi-ownership of a single token; Groups model multi-membership of a container. Implementations MAY associate a Group with tokens, but the standard does not require token interfaces.

## Backwards Compatibility

No known backward compatibility issues. This is a new interface with [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) detection.

## Reference Implementation

Reference contracts are provided in the `assets/` directory:

- `IERC8063.sol` — Interface definition
- `ERC8063.sol` — Minimal reference implementation

## Security Considerations

- Membership griefing: Implementations SHOULD bound per-tx iterations and avoid unbounded member enumeration onchain.
- Owner privileges: The owner has unilateral power to add members. Applications relying on group membership SHOULD consider this trust assumption.
- Permanent membership: Members cannot be forcibly removed by the owner, only voluntarily leave or transfer. This design choice prioritizes decentralization but means malicious members cannot be expelled without governance extensions.
- Access control: Clearly document who can add members; the baseline implementation grants this power exclusively to the owner.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Update ERC-8063 per reviewer feedback
- Clarify description: groups of Ethereum accounts (EOAs and contracts)
- Expand Abstract with coordination/access control use cases and examples
- Rewrite semantics as observable contract behavior (MUST revert conditions)
- Allow owner leaveGroup to either revert or transfer ownership first
- Add ERC-165 discoverability note for ownership transfer extension
- Link reference implementation files
- Remove RFC2119 keywords from Security Considerations (non-normative)
- Fix assets README path reference

ERCS/erc-8063.md, after:

---
eip: 8063
title: Groups - Multi-Member Containers
description: Onchain groups of accounts with membership and direct member management.
author: James Savechives (@jamesavechives)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8063-groups-multi-member-onchain-containers-for-shared-resources/25999
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-28
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

This proposal specifies a general-purpose "Group" primitive as a first-class, onchain object: a group of Ethereum accounts (EOAs and contracts). Each group is deployed as its own contract (identified by its contract address) and has an owner, an extensible set of members, and optional metadata. The standard defines a minimal interface for direct member management and membership introspection to support coordination and access control use cases (e.g., project teams, DAO member lists, game guilds, channels, or cohorts). Unlike token standards (e.g., [ERC-20](./eip-20.md)/[ERC-721](./eip-721.md)) that model units of transferable ownership, Groups model multi-party membership and coordination.

## Motivation

Tokens typically model ownership and transfer. Many applications instead need an addressable set of accounts with controlled join/leave semantics and shared state—e.g., project teams, DAOs, game parties, channels, or access cohorts. While [ERC-7743](./eip-7743.md) (MO-NFT) explores multi-ownership for a single token, it still anchors the abstraction to token semantics. Groups generalize this into a token-agnostic container where members can be added over time, without implying transfer or unitized ownership. Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) design pattern, each group is its own contract identified by its address. External resources (tokens, NFTs, etc.) can be associated with groups through their own contracts, just as they would with any EOA or contract address.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

Contracts that implement this standard MUST support [ERC-165](./eip-165.md).

### Interface

```solidity
/// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

interface IERC165 {
    function supportsInterface(bytes4 interfaceId) external view returns (bool);
}

/// @title IERC8063 — Minimal interface for onchain groups
/// @notice A group is a contract with an owner and members
interface IERC8063 is IERC165 {
    /// @dev Emitted when a member is added to the group
    event MemberAdded(address indexed account, address indexed by);

    /// @dev Emitted when a member voluntarily leaves the group
    event MemberLeft(address indexed account);

    /// @dev Emitted when a member transfers their membership to another address
    event MembershipTransferred(address indexed from, address indexed to);

    /// @notice Returns the owner of the group
    function owner() external view returns (address);

    /// @notice Returns the human-readable name of the group (may be empty)
    function name() external view returns (string memory);

    /// @notice Returns true if `account` is a member of the group
    function isMember(address account) external view returns (bool);

    /// @notice Returns current number of members (including owner)
    function getMemberCount() external view returns (uint256);

    /// @notice Owner adds an account as a member
    function addMember(address account) external;

    /// @notice Member voluntarily leaves the group
    function leaveGroup() external;

    /// @notice Transfer membership to another address (caller loses membership)
    /// @param to Address to receive membership (must not already be a member)
    function transferMembership(address to) external;
}
```

### Semantics

- Group creation: Upon creation or initialization, the contract MUST set the deployer (or initializer) as the group owner and initial member.
- Adding members: When called by any account other than `owner()`, `addMember` MUST revert. When called by `owner()`, `addMember` MUST revert if the `account` is already a member, and otherwise MUST add `account` as a member and emit `MemberAdded(account, msg.sender)`.
- Leaving: `leaveGroup` MUST revert if called by an address that is not a member. If `msg.sender == owner()` at the time of the call, implementations MUST either (a) revert, or (b) transfer ownership to another member and then proceed. Otherwise, `leaveGroup` MUST remove the caller's membership, decrement the member count, and emit `MemberLeft(msg.sender)`.
- Membership transfer: `transferMembership` MUST revert unless the caller is a member and `msg.sender != owner()` at the time of the call. `transferMembership` MUST revert if `to` is already a member. Otherwise, it MUST remove the caller's membership, add `to` as a member, and emit `MembershipTransferred(msg.sender, to)`. Member count remains unchanged.
- Introspection: `supportsInterface` MUST return true for `type(IERC165).interfaceId` and for `type(IERC8063).interfaceId`.

### Deployment model

Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) pattern, each group is its own contract deployment:

- **Group identity**: A group is uniquely identified by its contract address, just as an ERC-20 token is identified by its contract address.
- **Deployment**: To create a group, deploy a new contract implementing `IERC8063`. The deployer becomes the owner and initial member.
- **Discovery**: Applications can discover groups through events, registries, or direct address references, similar to token discovery patterns.
- **Naming**: Implementations SHOULD accept a human-readable name in the constructor and expose it via `name()`. Empty names are permitted.

### Optional extensions (non-normative)

- Admin roles: Owner-delegated administrators that can add members.
- Multi-signature member addition: Require multiple approvals before adding members.
- Open groups: Allow anyone to join without owner approval.
- Transferable ownership: Allow the owner to transfer ownership to another member.
- Removal by governance: Implement member removal through voting or consensus mechanisms for specific use cases requiring expulsion.
- Factory contracts: A factory pattern for deploying groups with standardized initialization.
- Resource associations: External contracts (e.g., [ERC-20](./eip-20.md), [ERC-721](./eip-721.md)) MAY track group ownership or membership-based access using the group's contract address.

#### Ownership transfer

Some implementations may need standardized ownership handoff for management tooling (e.g., dashboards).
Implementations MAY add an ownership transfer extension with the following interface:

```solidity
interface IERC8063Ownership {
    event OwnershipTransferred(address indexed previousOwner, address indexed newOwner);
    function transferOwnership(address newOwner) external;
}
```

If implemented:

- Only the current `owner()` MUST be allowed to call `transferOwnership`.
- The `newOwner` MUST be a member after the transfer completes. Implementations MAY require `isMember(newOwner) == true` beforehand, or MAY add `newOwner` as a member during the transfer.
- The `leaveGroup()` restriction applies to the **current** `owner()` address (i.e., after ownership is transferred, the previous owner is no longer restricted by that rule).
- ERC-165: Implementations that support this extension SHOULD make it discoverable via `supportsInterface` (e.g., return true for `type(IERC8063Ownership).interfaceId`).

#### ERC-20 compatibility (decimals=0)

Implementations MAY expose an [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) interface for group membership under the following constraints:

- `decimals()` MUST return `0`.
- `balanceOf(account)` MUST be either `0` (non-member) or `1` (member).
- `totalSupply()` MUST equal the current member count.
- `transfer(to, amount)` MUST require `amount == 1` and MUST transfer membership of the caller to `to`.
- `approve(spender, amount)` and `allowance(owner, spender)` MAY be implemented with values clamped to `{0,1}`; `transferFrom(from, to, amount)` MUST require `amount == 1` and, if permitted, MUST transfer membership from `from` to `to`.
- All operations MUST preserve the invariant that no account's balance exceeds `1` and MUST NOT allow the owner account to be transferred.

Reference: see the ERC-20 compatibility implementation in the assets directory.

Motivation (non-normative): exposing a constrained ERC-20 view can improve compatibility with existing tooling that already understands ERC-20 interfaces (e.g., wallet/portfolio displays, accounting/distribution utilities, and governance/gating systems that accept an ERC-20 address as a “membership token”). This mode is OPTIONAL and is intended as an adapter; it does not imply fungible-value semantics.

## Rationale

- **One contract per group**: Following the [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) model where each token is its own contract creates a simpler, more composable design. The contract address becomes the natural group identifier.
- **Token-agnostic**: Separates membership from asset ownership/transfer semantics, suitable for social and coordination use cases.
- **Direct member management**: Owner can add members directly without invitation/acceptance flow, simplifying the interface and reducing transaction costs.
- **Voluntary exit only**: Members can leave voluntarily via `leaveGroup()` or transfer their position, but cannot be forcibly removed by the owner. This prevents centralization and ensures membership stability, similar to how ERC-20 token holders cannot have their tokens revoked.
- **Minimal surface**: Add members, voluntary leave, membership queries, and transfers are sufficient for broad interoperability while allowing richer policies via extensions.
- **Transferable membership**: Enables members to delegate or reassign their position without owner intervention, supporting use cases like account migration or role handoffs.
- **External resource model**: Resources (tokens, NFTs) can be associated with groups externally, just as they would with any address, avoiding tight coupling and enabling flexible composition.
- **Relationship to [ERC-7743](./eip-7743.md)**: MO-NFT models multi-ownership of a single token; Groups model multi-membership of a container. Implementations MAY associate a Group with tokens, but the standard does not require token interfaces.

## Backwards Compatibility

No known backward compatibility issues. This is a new interface with [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) detection.

## Reference Implementation

Reference contracts are provided in the `assets/` directory:

- [`IERC8063.sol`](../assets/erc-8063/IERC8063.sol) — Interface definition
- [`ERC8063.sol`](../assets/erc-8063/ERC8063.sol) — Minimal reference implementation

## Security Considerations

- Membership griefing: Implementations are encouraged to bound per-tx iterations and avoid unbounded member enumeration onchain.
- Owner privileges: The owner has unilateral power to add members. Applications relying on group membership need to account for this trust assumption.
- Permanent membership: Members cannot be forcibly removed by the owner, only voluntarily leave or transfer. This design choice prioritizes decentralization but means malicious members cannot be expelled without governance extensions.
- Access control: Clearly document who can add members; the baseline implementation grants this power exclusively to the owner.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
