---
eip: 7254
title: Token Revenue Sharing
description: Revenue token is a token that shares rewards for holders.
author: Quy Phan (@quyphandang), Quy Phan <quy.phan@cryptoviet.info>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/token-revenue-sharing/14872
status: Review
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-06-29
---

## Abstract

With the aspiration of bringing forth unique functionality and enhancing value for holders of [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, our project aims to effortlessly reward token holders without necessitating users to lock, stake, or farm their tokens. Whenever the project generates profits, these profits can be distributed to the token holders.

Revenue Sharing is an extended version of [ERC-20](./eip-20.md). It proposes an additional payment method for token holders. 

This standard includes updating rewards for holders and allowing token holders to withdraw rewards.

## Motivation

Potential use cases encompass:

* Companies distributing dividends to token holders.
* Direct sharing of revenue derived from business activities, such as marketplaces, Automated Market Makers (AMMs), and games.

## Specification

### Structures

#### `UserInformation`

`inReward`: when user's balance decreases, `inReward` will be updated
`outReward`: when user's balance increases, `outReward` will be updated
`withdraw`: total amount of reward tokens withdrawn

```solidity
struct UserInformation {
    uint256 inReward;
    uint256 outReward;
    uint256 withdraw;
}
```

### Methods

#### `maxTokenReward`

Returns max token reward.

```solidity
function maxTokenReward() public view returns (uint256)
```

#### `informationOf`

Returns the account information of another account with the address `token` and `account`, including: `inReward`, `outReward` and `withdraw`.

```solidity
function informationOf(address token, address account) public view returns (UserInformation memory)
```

#### `informationOfBatch`

Returns the list account information of another account with the `account`, including: inReward, outReward and withdraw.

```solidity
function informationOfBatch(address account) public view returns (UserInformation[] memory)
```

#### `tokenReward`

Returns the list token reward address of the token.

```solidity
function tokenReward() public view returns (address[] memory)
```

#### `updateReward`

Updates `rewardPerShare` of token reward.

rewardPerShare = rewardPerShare + amount / totalSupply()

```solidity
function updateReward(address[] memory token, uint256[] memory amount) public
```

#### `viewReward`

Returns the list amount of reward for an account

```solidity
function viewReward(address account) public view returns (uint256[] memory)
```

#### `getReward`

Gets and returns reward with list token reward.

```solidity
function getReward(address[] memory token) public
```

#### `getRewardPerShare`

Returns the reward per share of token reward.

```solidity
function getRewardPerShare(address token) public view returns (uint256)
```

#### `existsTokenReward`

Returns the status of token reward.

```solidity
function existsTokenReward(address token) public view returns (bool)
```

## Rationale

<!-- TODO -->

## Reference Implementation

* [`ERC7254`](../assets/eip-7254/ERC7254.sol)
* [`IERC7254`](../assets/eip-7254/IERC7254.sol)

## Security Considerations

<!-- TODO -->

Needs discussion.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
