---
eip: 7688
title: EthRisk Watch: Guidelines
description: Establishing a framework for monitoring and regulating high-risk
author: flyme (@Flyme10086)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/ethereum-high-risk-transaction-surveillance-guidelines/18415
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-01-31
---

## Abstract

This ERC proposes a standardized framework for identifying, monitoring, and regulating high-risk transactions on the Ethereum network. The framework includes a set of criteria and a procedural approach for classifying transactions as high-risk based on factors such as transaction amount, frequency, associated addresses, and patterns indicative of fraudulent or illicit activities. The aim is to enhance network security and integrity, prevent illegal activities, and maintain compliance with global regulatory standards.

## Motivation

The motivation behind this ERC is to address the growing concern of illegal and fraudulent activities within the Ethereum network. The lack of a standardized approach to identify and regulate high-risk transactions poses a threat to the network's security and user trust. This ERC aims to fill this gap by providing a clear, efficient, and effective mechanism for monitoring transactions that may be associated with money laundering, fraud, or other financial crimes.

## Specification

The Ethereum High-Risk Transaction Monitoring Standards introduce a set of rules and guidelines for tracking high-risk transactions. They utilize heuristic rules to generate a set of suspicious addresses, thereby enhancing the accuracy of transaction tracking. This specification details the steps for generating a list of suspicious addresses and assessing their suspiciousness based on the weight coefficients of frequency sorting, transaction frequency, transaction amount, and correlation.

Step One: Initialization of High-Risk Transaction Address Set

- High-risk address pools are created by governments marking accounts involved in existing cryptocurrency crime cases.

Step Two: Generation of Suspicious Address Set

- Network Construction: Build a transaction network with a depth of ten layers based on the marked accounts.

- Amount Analysis: Discard all transactions in the network whose amounts are below a specific threshold.

- Address Analysis: Merge multiple transactions in the network that have the same outgoing and incoming addresses.

- Frequency Sorting: Sort the incoming addresses in the network in descending order based on the number of appearances.

Step Three: Further Analysis of Suspicious Address Set

- Transaction Frequency Analysis: Identify addresses that have a high volume of transactions with the same address in a short period.

- Transaction Amount Analysis: Identify addresses involved in multiple transactions of the same amount.

- Correlation Analysis: Identify addresses that have transactions with multiple high-risk accounts.

Step Four: Evaluation of Suspicious Address Set

- Suspiciousness Evaluation: Assess the suspiciousness of each address using a weighted coefficient of frequency sorting, transaction frequency, transaction amount, and correlation.

This simplified specification outlines key heuristic rules, providing a concise overview of the process for tracking high-risk transactions on Ethereum.

## Rationale

The motivation for this standard is to provide a comprehensive framework for monitoring high-risk transactions, balancing the need for ordinary users' privacy with the necessity of preventing criminal misuse. Detailed design motivations and alternative considerations will be provided in subsequent versions of this EIP.

## Backwards Compatibility

No backward compatibility issues found.

## Test Cases

TBD

## Reference Implementation

TBD

## Security Considerations

The security considerations of this standard are under discussion.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).