---
eip: 7558
title: Minimal Lockable Range NFTs
description: A minimal interface for soulbinding multiple ERC-721 NFTs
author: Hans Bergren (@0xCLARITY)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7558-minimal-lockable-range-nfts/16668
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-11-15
requires: 165, 721
---

## Abstract

This proposal extends [ERC-721](./eip-721.md). It proposes a minimal interface to make both individual tokens and a contiguous range of tokenIds soulbound (locked).

## Motivation

Other existing soulbound / lockable standards emit events that only include a single `tokenId`. This makes it gas-prohibitive to lock or unlock all of the tokens in any contiguous range, including potentially locking/unlocking the entire 721 contract.

This proposal captures the use-cases covered by existing proposals, yet also allows for range operations around soulbinding/locking tokens.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Contract Interface

The interface is defined as follows:

```solidity
// ERC165 interfaceId 0x75587558
interface IERC7558 is IERC5192 {
  /// @notice Emitted when the locking status for a range of tokens is changed to locked.
  event RangeLocked(uint256 _fromTokenId, uint256 _toTokenId);

  /// @notice Emitted when the locking status for a range of tokens is changed to unlocked.
  event RangeUnlocked(uint256 _fromTokenId, uint256 _toTokenId);
}
```

The Locked/Unlocked or RangeLocked/RangeUnlocked event MUST be emitted when the locking status of a token, or a consecutive range of tokens, is changed.

It is assumed that all tokens start out unlocked, and no event emission is necessary to indicate that.

NOTE: This inherits the `Locked(uint256)` and `Unlocked(uint256)` events , and the `locked(uint256) returns(bool)` function defined on [ERC-5192](./eip-5192.md).

The [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) interfaceId is `0x75587558`.

> NOTE: The ERC-165 identifier doesn't strictly follow ERC-165 calculations, but there is prior art to assigning a custom identifier to avoid conflict or for ERCs that do not include any functions, like [ERC-4906](./eip-4906.md)

## Rationale

This standard optimizes gas consumption for bulk token operations in soulbound contracts.

Using the `locked` function facilitates interoperability with other soulbound/lockable proposals.

## Backwards Compatibility

This proposal is fully backward compatible with [ERC-721](./eip-721.md).

## Security Considerations

There are no security considerations related directly to the implementation of this standard.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
