---
eip: 8042
title: Diamond Storage
description: Define storage locations for structs using human-readable, meaningful strings.
author: Nick Mudge (@mudgen)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8042-diamond-storage/25718
status: Review
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-11
requires: 7201
---

## Abstract
This standard formalizes the diamond storage pattern originally introduced by [ERC-2535 Diamonds](./eip-2535.md) and widely adopted across smart contracts.

Though originally created for proxy contracts, diamond storage can be used to organize storage and data access within *any* smart contract.

Diamond storage defines the location of structs in contract storage using the `keccak256` hash of human-readable identifiers.

[ERC-8042](./eip-8042) standardizes this simple and production-proven approach, offering a lightweight alternative to [ERC-7201](./eip-7201.md) for new and existing projects.


## Motivation

On March 10, 2020, a change to the Solidity compiler introduced the ability to assign structs to any storage location. This enabled a new pattern for using separate areas of storage. The pattern became known as diamond storage, as it was first popularized by ERC-2535 Diamonds and has since been widely used.

Later, on June 20, 2023, ERC-7201 was introduced to standardize this general storage pattern. However, the formula that ERC-7201 proposed for generating storage locations differed from the one already established and in active use by diamond storage.

ERC-8042 standardizes diamond storage for new projects and validates past diamond storage implementations.

While ERC-7201 defines a generalized mechanism for storage namespaces, ERC-8042 preserves the simplicity and backward compatibility of the diamond storage convention already deployed in production across many projects.

Developers may prefer diamond storage for its simplicity, restricted ASCII identifiers, and direct hash-based computation of storage locations.

This standard can be used by tools to find and access data within smart contract storage.

## Specification

Diamond storage defines where structs are located in contract storage.

A diamond storage identifier is defined as a string containing only printable ASCII characters. That is characters `0x20` through `0x7E` inclusive.

The location of a diamond storage struct is determined by the `keccak256` hash of a diamond storage identifier.

### Recommendations

1. #### Use Solidity's string literals

   A string literal is an ASCII string type that is literally written between quotes, for example: `"this is a string literal"`.

   It is recommended to use Solidity's string literals to create diamond storage identifiers because the Solidity compiler enforces that they only contain printable ASCII characters, characters `0x20` through `0x7E` inclusive. Hex (`\xNN`) and Unicode (`\uNNNN`) escape sequences should **NOT** be used in diamond storage identifiers.

   It is recommended to use compile-time constant string literals. Here is an example:

   `bytes32 constant STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("myproject.erc721.registry");`

2. #### Use unique, human-readable, meaningful strings

   A human-readable string is a string that humans can normally read and understand, like "Transaction successful".

   A meaningful string in this context is a string that appropriately names or describes a storage space, or uses a pattern to do so. For example, `"myproject.erc721.registry"` is a hierarchical pattern that specifies [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) related storage for a registry. The string `"car.fish.piano.run"` is not a meaningful string because it is random and does not appropriately name or describe something.

   Diamond storage identifiers should be unique, human-readable, meaningful strings.

3. #### Do NOT use Unicode literals

   Unicode literals can contain invisible characters and other non-ASCII characters which violates the specification of this standard.

   Here is an example of a Unicode literal in Solidity: `string memory a = unicode"Hello 😃";`.

   Unicode literals should **NOT** be used to create diamond storage identifiers.

4. #### Do not use the space `0x20` character

   Including the space (`0x20`) character in diamond storage identifiers is not recommended, as it may interfere with tooling such as the NatSpec tag described next.


### ERC-8042 NatSpec tag

ERC-7201 defines the NatSpec tag `@custom:storage-location <FORMULA_ID>:<NAMESPACE_ID>`, where `<FORMULA_ID>` identifies a formula used to compute the storage location of a struct based on the namespace id.

The formula identified by `erc8042` is defined as `erc8042(id: string literal) = keccak256(id)`. In Solidity, this corresponds to the expression `keccak256(id)`. When using this formula the annotation becomes `@custom:storage-location erc8042:<NAMESPACE_ID>`. For example, `@custom:storage-location erc8042:myproject.erc721.registry` annotates diamond storage with id `"myproject.erc721.registry"` rooted at `erc8042("myproject.erc721.registry")`.


## Rationale

Proxy contracts and contracts that use `DELEGATECALL` need a reliable and secure way to define, document, and manage separate areas of smart contract storage. 

In March 2020, diamond storage established a way to do this and has been in use since then. However, diamond storage wasn't formalized as a standard, which is important to clarify its mechanics, usage and precise specification.

In June 2023, ERC-7201 Namespaced Storage Layout standardized the general pattern but has looser restrictions on namespace ids and a more complicated formula for calculating storage locations. Some people may prefer using ERC-7201, especially if they may auto-generate machine-readable or random strings for their namespace ids.

Some people may prefer ERC-8042 Diamond Storage for its ASCII-enforced, human-readable, meaningful strings and simple calculation of storage locations.

ERC-2535 Diamonds first introduced the pattern of distinct storage areas for smart contracts. ERC-7201 later standardized the idea. ERC-8042 standardizes the original, simpler diamond storage variant for new projects and legacy compatibility.

Though originally created for proxy contracts, diamond storage can be used to organize storage and data access within *any* smart contract.

### Comparing ERC-8042 and ERC-7201

#### ERC-7201

ERC-7201 applies a formula to a namespace id to generate a storage location. Per the ERC-7201 specification a namespace id is a string that should not contain any whitespace characters. A namespace id has no other restrictions. So a namespace id could be something meaningful like `mycompany.projectA.erc721` or it could be a series of random bytes, characters or words, etc.

ERC-7201 uses the following formula, given in Solidity, to generate a storage location: `keccak256(abi.encode(uint256(keccak256(bytes(namespace id))) - 1)) & ~bytes32(uint256(0xff))`.

   1. The first part of the ERC-7201 formula `keccak256(abi.encode(uint256(keccak256(bytes(namespace id))) - 1))` ensures that the input bytes to the second call to `keccak256` will not match any input bytes used by Solidity's types that also use `keccak256` to determine storage locations. This makes it possible to use any sequence of bytes for the namespace id.

   2. The last part of ERC-7201, `& ~bytes32(uint256(0xff))` ensures that the final storage location is a multiple of 256 which may provide a gas optimization in the future.

#### ERC-8042

ERC-8042 identifiers can only contain printable ASCII characters and recommends using Solidity's string literals which enforces this constraint.

ERC-8042 recommends human-readable, meaningful strings for diamond storage identifiers. 

ERC-8042 uses the following formula, given in Solidity, to generate a storage location: `keccak256(string literal)`.

## Backwards Compatibility

Diamond storage as described by this standard has been in use for 5 years. This standard recognizes and standardizes all previous uses of diamond storage that conform to the specification.

## Reference Implementation

This is a simple example of a contract that uses diamond storage:
```solidity
/**
 * @title ERC721Registry
 * @notice A registry contract for tracking ERC721 contracts.
 *         Allows adding ERC721 contract addresses up to a configurable limit.
 * @dev EIP-8042 Diamond Storage is used to organize and manage access to storage.
 */
contract ERC721Registry {

  /// @notice Reverts when the registry reaches its configured capacity.
  error ERC721RegistryFull();
  
  /// @notice Struct storage position defined by keccak256 hash 
  ///         of diamond storage identifier.
  bytes32 constant STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("myproject.erc721.registry");
 
  /// @notice @notice Storage layout for the ERC721 registry, following EIP-8042.  
  /// @dev - `erc721Contracts`: Dynamic array of registered ERC721 contract addresses.
  ///      - `registryLimit`: Maximum allowed entries.
  struct ERC721RegistryStorage {
    address[] erc721Contracts;
    uint256 registryLimit;    
  }

  /// @notice Returns a pointer to the ERC721RegistryStorage struct in storage.
  /// @dev Uses inline assembly to access the storage slot defined by STORAGE_POSITION.
  /// @return s The ERC173Storage struct in storage.
  function getStorage() internal pure  returns (ERC721RegistryStorage storage s) {
    bytes32 position = STORAGE_POSITION;
    assembly {
      s.slot := position
    }
  }

  /// @notice Sets the maximum number of ERC721 contracts the registry can hold.  
  /// @param _newLimit New registry capacity limit.
  function setRegistryLimit(uint256 _newLimit) internal {
    getStorage().registryLimit = _newLimit;
  }

  /// @notice Adds an ERC721 contract address to the registry.
  /// @dev Reverts with `ERC721RegistryFull` if the registry is full.
  /// @param _erc721Contract Address of the ERC721 contract to register.
  function addERC721Contract(address _erc721Contract) internal { 
    ERC721RegistryStorage storage s = getStorage();

    if(s.erc721Contracts.length == s.registryLimit) {
      revert ERC721RegistryFull();
    }
    
    s.erc721Contracts.push(_erc721Contract);        
  }

  /// @notice Returns a list of all registered ERC721 contract addresses.
  /// @return Array of registered ERC721 contract addresses.
  function getERC721Registry() internal view returns (address[] memory) {
    return getStorage().erc721Contracts;
  }
}
```

## Security Considerations

### Uniqueness of identifiers
Two independent contracts or libraries using the same human-readable string will map to the same storage slot. Developers must ensure that diamond storage identifiers are unique within a contract system to prevent unintentional data overlap or corruption. A common practice is to prefix identifiers with a project, organization, or standard name (for example, `"myproject.erc721.registry"`).


### ASCII Input Restriction to Prevent Storage Collisions

To prevent storage collisions, diamond storage identifiers must consist only of printable ASCII characters, specifically the range `0x20` to `0x7E` inclusive. Identifiers must not include Unicode escape sequences (`\uNNNN`) or hexadecimal escape sequences (`\xNN`).

Solidity’s storage slot encoding, as produced by `abi.encode(p)`, contains non-printable bytes, particularly null bytes (`0x00`), due to Solidity’s default storage layout and padding rules.

Allowing identifiers to include such bytes could enable a malicious developer to craft an identifier like `"config\x00\x00..."`. The bytes of such an identifier could collide with the storage encoded input of mappings, dynamic arrays, strings and bytes which use `keccak256` to compute storage locations. Such collisions could result in overwrites, corruption of contract state, or security vulnerabilities.

Restricting identifiers to printable ASCII removes this exploitable source of collision. While this restriction does not provide a mathematical guarantee that collisions are impossible — because, in theory, a sufficiently large storage layout position (`p`) could accidentally contain all printable ASCII bytes — the probability of this occurring is extremely small, and impractical.

By using human-readable, meaningful strings for identifiers, the practical likelihood of any collision is virtually zero, providing strong protection for the integrity and safety of contract storage.

### String Literals

The specification recommends using string literals to create diamond storage identifiers because the Solidity compiler enforces that only printable ASCII characters are used. However, string literals should not use Unicode escape sequences (`\uNNNN` ) or hexadecimal escape sequences (`\xNN` ).

### Unicode Literals

Unicode literals (e.g. `unicode"Hello 😃"`) should not be used to create diamond storage identifiers because they can contain non-printable bytes and characters, and they can be used to obfuscate identifiers by using characters that look like other characters. For example, the Cyrillic character `а` (`\u0430`) looks identical to the ASCII character `a` (`\u0061`).” In addition Unicode has control characters that change the direction text is displayed.

### `keccak256` Hash Collision Resistance

The location of a diamond storage struct is determined by the output of the `keccak256` hash function. Some developers may wonder about the likelihood that a diamond storage struct lands at an address where it will accidentally overwrite existing storage data. The 256-bit address space of contract storage is so vast that the likelihood of data overlap is statistically improbable.

Solidity mappings, dynamic arrays, strings and bytes also use `keccak256` to determine their location in contract storage.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).