ERCS/erc-8110.md, before:

---
eip: 8110
title: Domain-centric Architecture for Diamonds
description: An architectural pattern that organizes Diamond storage by domain using ERC-8042 identifiers.
author: Hoang (@0x76agabond)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8110-domain-centric-architecture-for-diamonds/27250
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-12-20
requires: 2535, 8042
---

## Abstract

This EIP introduces a **domain-based architectural pattern** for contracts implementing the [ERC-2535 Diamonds](./eip-2535.md) and [ERC-8042 Diamond Storage](./eip-8042.md).  
It defines a consistent naming convention for storage identifiers and a directory organization model that **decouples storage management from facet logic**.  
This pattern helps reduce storage collisions and human error while enabling better tooling for multi-facet systems.

## Motivation

ERC-2535 provides a flexible foundation for modular smart contracts through facets, but it intentionally leaves storage organization and architectural conventions open to implementation.  
While this flexibility encourages creativity, it can sometimes lead to inconsistency.  
Each developer or team may structure storage differently, making it harder to design robust and easy-to-use tooling for storage management.  

Without a shared structural framework, storage identifiers may be inconsistently verified or reused across facets, which can result in unexpected collisions or subtle upgrade issues between facets sharing the same state.  

ERC-8042 introduced human-readable storage identifiers to improve clarity, but it does not define how those identifiers should be structured or grouped in larger projects.  

This EIP proposes a domain-centric architectural pattern that establishes a consistent framework for managing storage independently of facet implementation.  

By introducing clear domain boundaries and deterministic naming rules for storage identifiers, the pattern maintains the openness of the Diamond Standard while providing a shared foundation for collaboration, tooling support, and long-term upgrade safety across complex systems.

## Specification

### 1. Domain Definition

- A **domain** represents the conceptual ownership of a storage space.  

- Each **domain** corresponds to exactly one storage struct and one identifier.  

- A **domain** has a one-to-many relationship with the group of function selectors that access it.

- A **domain** is independent of facets, multiple facets MAY read or modify the same domain.

- **Domains** SHOULD be defined according to business or system responsibility, not by facet name.

### 2. Storage Identifier Naming Convention

A storage identifier is the human-readable string whose keccak256 hash defines a Diamond Storage position.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("meaningful.string");
```

It represents the domain that owns and manages a specific storage layout.  
To ensure uniqueness and clarity, at a minimum, a storage identifier SHOULD include the following components:

```text
    {project}.{domain_name}.{version}
```

To improve readability, namespace separation, and tooling support, additional contextual components MAY be included, resulting in the following extended format:

```text
    {org}.{project}.{domain_type}.{domain_name}.{version}
```

### Identifier Components

- `org`  
  Optional organization or author prefix (e.g., `eth`, `vag`, `safe`)

- `project`  
  Project or protocol name

- `domain_type`  
    Optional classification of the domain. If present, it SHOULD be one of:

    - `diamond` — core Diamond protocol domains, such as upgrade, introspection, and ownership.

    - `system` — shared system-level domains providing cross-cutting functionality. (e.g.,  reentrancy, pause, access control)

    - `business` — application-specific domains. (tokens, guards, modules)

- `domain_name`  
    Lowercase keyword identifying the storage domain

- `version`  
    Optional storage layout version identifier  

    - The initial storage layout is conceptually treated as `v1`.  

    - If omitted, the identifier refers to this initial (`v1`) storage layout for backward compatibility.  

    - `v2`, `v3`, … MUST be used for layout-breaking changes.  

    - The version MUST be incremented only when the storage layout is no longer append-only.

**Each domain:**

- MUST have **one** storage struct and **one** identifier.

- MUST use **append-only struct upgrades**, add new fields at the end.

- SHOULD be implemented in a dedicated directory named after the domain.

### Example Identifiers

**Diamond Storage**  
Used for the core Diamond logic such as **upgrade** and **introspection**.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.diamond.storage");
```

**Allowance**  
Represents a business domain responsible for tracking token allowances or permissions.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.business.allowance.v1");
```

**Pausable**  
Defines a system-level domain for pausing logic shared across multiple facets.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.system.pausable.v2");
```

### 3. Directory Convention

In line with Domain-Driven Design principles, the directory layout SHOULD reflect domain ownership.

- **Each domain defines a logical namespace for storage ownership**.  
  Directories are named after this namespace and serve as its physical representation in the codebase.

- **Facets act as logic containers and do not own storage**.  
  They MAY reside alongside domain directories or reference domain-owned logic.

- **Both directory names and storage identifiers SHOULD include domain information**.  
  This consistency allows tooling and precompilers to automatically associate selectors, domains, and storage layouts.

- **Each domain SHOULD be represented by a dedicated directory**.  
  Within this directory, domain-owned logic such as storage layout definitions, internal helper logic, and any facets primarily associated with the domain MAY be organized under subdirectories as needed.

- **This structure reduces the risk of storage collisions by design**.  
  The alignment of domain namespaces, directory layout, and storage identifiers allows file system constraints and static analysis tools to surface conflicts early and reason about upgrades proactively.

### Example Directory

*This directory structure is illustrative and does not mandate a specific naming convention.*  
*Subdirectory names such as `storage/` are illustrative and may contain both storage layout definitions and internal domain logic.*

```text
contracts/
├── diamond/
│   ├── storage/
│   │   └── DiamondStorage.sol
│   └── facets/
│       ├── DiamondCutFacet.sol
│       └── DiamondLoupeFacet.sol
│
├── allowance/
│   ├── storage/
│   │   └── AllowanceStorage.sol
│   └── facets/
│       └── AllowanceFacet.sol
│
└── pausable/
    └── storage/
        └── PausableStorage.sol
```

## Rationale

From the beginning, the Diamond Standard (ERC-2535) was designed around the relationship between **function selectors** and **storage positions**, not around facets themselves.  
Facets are replaceable units of logic — the `diamondCut` operation only replaces, removes or adds code — but the **storage layout persists** and defines the actual state continuity of the contract.  

A clear example of this can be found in the reference Diamond implementation `diamond-1-hardhat`.

Both `DiamondCutFacet` and `DiamondLoupeFacet` interact with the same `LibDiamond` storage.  
Although these facets serve different purposes — one mutating, one querying — they share the same domain (`diamond.storage`).  
This demonstrates that **storage belongs to the domain**, not the facet, facets merely provide interfaces for logic to read or mutate that domain.

Over time, many implementations have treated facets as the primary boundary of responsibility, grouping logic and storage together without recognizing that **storage domains** are the true architectural anchors.  
This misunderstanding leads to inconsistent storage management, overlapping identifiers and fragile upgrade paths where one facet unintentionally corrupts another’s state.

The **domain-centric approach** restores the original intent of the Diamond:  
Selectors (facets) operate *through* domains, not *as* domains.  
Each domain defines its own persistent storage struct and identifier, while facets merely act as interfaces that execute logic against it.  

This shift decouples storage from logic when separation is desired, while still allowing tightly coupled designs when intentional.  
It enables:

- Independent evolution of business logic without rewriting storage.  
- Clear separation between reusable system components and app-specific domains.
- A deterministic mapping between identifiers and state.

By formalizing this pattern, Diamond architecture becomes safer, more transparent and easier to extend — re-aligning practice with its original design philosophy.


### Special Case: Domain-Facet Overlap

There is a special case within this separation principle where a domain and its facet intentionally represent the same entity.
A great example of this approach can be found in the `Compose project`

In Compose, a facet and its associated domain are explicitly mapped into a single entity.  
This is a deliberate design choice that enables predefined, plug-and-play standard facets with a well-defined storage layout and reduced collision risk.

This approach is suitable for systems that prioritize modular composition and standardized functionality, allowing developers to safely integrate common features with predictable behavior.  
However, when implementing custom or project-specific logic, domains and facets SHOULD still be treated as separate entities.

Maintaining this separation preserves clarity of ownership, supports future upgrades, and improves the long-term scalability of complex Diamond-based architectures.

## Backwards Compatibility

This proposal is fully backward-compatible with both ERC-2535 (Diamond Standard) and ERC-8042 (Diamond Storage Identifier).  
It introduces no breaking changes, no new opcodes, and no modifications to existing protocol mechanics.

Instead, it defines an architectural convention that extends and reinforces the modularity and upgrade safety of ERC-2535, as well as the human-readable storage identifier design introduced by ERC-8042.

Developers are encouraged to continue following both standards to maintain interoperability while benefiting from domain-based organization and reduced storage collision risk.


## Reference Implementation

Minimal implementation examples demonstrating the convention:

**Diamond Domain**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.diamond.storage");

    struct DiamondStorage {
        mapping(bytes4 => address) selectorToFacet;
        address contractOwner;
    }

    function diamondStorage() pure returns (DiamondStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

**Business Domain (Allowance)**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.business.allowance.v1");

    struct AllowanceStorage {
        mapping(address => mapping(address => uint256)) allowance;
    }

    function allowanceStorage() pure returns (AllowanceStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

**System Domain (Pausable)**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.system.pausable.v2");

    struct PausableStorage {
        mapping(bytes4 => bool) isSelectorPaused;
    }

    function pausableStorage() pure returns (PausableStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

Each domain defines and owns its storage independently.
Facets interact with domain-owned storage definitions, supporting safe upgrades and avoiding unintended storage overlap.

## Security Considerations

This pattern strengthens the security model of Diamond-based systems by introducing explicit and deterministic storage identifiers.

By separating domains and enforcing consistent naming rules, it reduces the risk of:

- Storage collisions between unrelated facets or upgrades.
- Human errors caused by inconsistent or reused identifiers.
- State corruption during upgrades or extensions.

Each domain owns its ERC-8042 storage identifier.
When combined with append-only storage layout upgrades, this allows storage evolution without interfering with existing state.

This clarity also improves auditability and supports static analysis tooling when analyzing storage safety across upgrades.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

chage: add storage declaration requirements

ERCS/erc-8110.md, after:

---
eip: 8110
title: Domain-centric Architecture for Diamonds
description: An architectural pattern that organizes Diamond storage by domain using ERC-8042 identifiers.
author: Hoang (@0x76agabond)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8110-domain-centric-architecture-for-diamonds/27250
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-12-20
requires: 2535, 8042
---

## Abstract

This EIP introduces a **domain-based architectural pattern** for contracts implementing the [ERC-2535 Diamonds](./eip-2535.md) and [ERC-8042 Diamond Storage](./eip-8042.md).  
It defines a consistent naming convention for storage identifiers and a directory organization model that **decouples storage management from facet logic**.  
This pattern helps reduce storage collisions and human error while enabling better tooling for multi-facet systems.

## Motivation

ERC-2535 provides a flexible foundation for modular smart contracts through facets, but it intentionally leaves storage organization and architectural conventions open to implementation.  
While this flexibility encourages creativity, it can sometimes lead to inconsistency.  
Each developer or team may structure storage differently, making it harder to design robust and easy-to-use tooling for storage management.  

Without a shared structural framework, storage identifiers may be inconsistently verified or reused across facets, which can result in unexpected collisions or subtle upgrade issues between facets sharing the same state.  

ERC-8042 introduced human-readable storage identifiers to improve clarity, but it does not define how those identifiers should be structured or grouped in larger projects.  

This EIP proposes a domain-centric architectural pattern that establishes a consistent framework for managing storage independently of facet implementation.  

By introducing clear domain boundaries and deterministic naming rules for storage identifiers, the pattern maintains the openness of the Diamond Standard while providing a shared foundation for collaboration, tooling support, and long-term upgrade safety across complex systems.

## Specification

### 1. Domain Definition

- A **domain** represents the conceptual ownership of a storage space.  

- Each **domain** corresponds to exactly one storage struct and one identifier.  

- A **domain** has a one-to-many relationship with the group of function selectors that access it.

- A **domain** is independent of facets, multiple facets MAY read or modify the same domain.

- **Domains** SHOULD be defined according to business or system responsibility, not by facet name.

### 2. Storage Identifier Naming Convention

A storage identifier is the human-readable string whose keccak256 hash defines a Diamond Storage position.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("meaningful.string");
```

It represents the domain that owns and manages a specific storage layout.  
To ensure uniqueness and clarity, at a minimum, a storage identifier SHOULD include the following components:

```text
    {project}.{domain_name}.{version}
```

To improve readability, namespace separation, and tooling support, additional contextual components MAY be included, resulting in the following extended format:

```text
    {org}.{project}.{domain_type}.{domain_name}.{version}
```

### Identifier Components

- `org`  
  Optional organization or author prefix (e.g., `eth`, `vag`, `safe`)

- `project`  
  Project or protocol name

- `domain_type`  
    Optional classification of the domain. If present, it SHOULD be one of:

    - `diamond` — core Diamond protocol domains, such as upgrade, introspection, and ownership.

    - `system` — shared system-level domains providing cross-cutting functionality. (e.g.,  reentrancy, pause, access control)

    - `business` — application-specific domains. (tokens, guards, modules)

- `domain_name`  
    Lowercase keyword identifying the storage domain

- `version`  
    Optional storage layout version identifier  

    - The initial storage layout is conceptually treated as `v1`.  

    - If omitted, the identifier refers to this initial (`v1`) storage layout for backward compatibility.  

    - `v2`, `v3`, … MUST be used for layout-breaking changes.  

    - The version MUST be incremented only when the storage layout is no longer append-only.

**Each domain:**

- MUST have **one** storage struct and **one** identifier.

- MUST use **append-only struct upgrades**, add new fields at the end.

- SHOULD be implemented in a dedicated directory named after the domain.

### Example Identifiers

**Diamond Storage**  
Used for the core Diamond logic such as **upgrade** and **introspection**.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.diamond.storage");
```

**Allowance**  
Represents a business domain responsible for tracking token allowances or permissions.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.business.allowance.v1");
```

**Pausable**  
Defines a system-level domain for pausing logic shared across multiple facets.

```solidity
    bytes32 constant PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.system.pausable.v2");
```

### 3. Storage Declaration Requirements
To support reliable tooling and explicit storage ownership, each domain defined by this proposal MUST declare its storage location using the ERC-8042 NatSpec annotation.

Specifically, the domain-owned storage struct MUST be annotated with:

    @custom:storage-location erc8042:<NAMESPACE_ID>

This proposal does not redefine the storage location formula, but requires the use of this annotation to ensure that domain storage is discoverable, unambiguous, and machine-readable.

### 4. Directory Convention

In line with Domain-Driven Design principles, the directory layout SHOULD reflect domain ownership.

- **Each domain defines a logical namespace for storage ownership**.  
  Directories are named after this namespace and serve as its physical representation in the codebase.

- **Facets act as logic containers and do not own storage**.  
  They MAY reside alongside domain directories or reference domain-owned logic.

- **Both directory names and storage identifiers SHOULD include domain information**.  
  This consistency allows tooling and precompilers to automatically associate selectors, domains, and storage layouts.

- **Each domain SHOULD be represented by a dedicated directory**.  
  Within this directory, domain-owned logic such as storage layout definitions, internal helper logic, and any facets primarily associated with the domain MAY be organized under subdirectories as needed.

- **This structure reduces the risk of storage collisions by design**.  
  The alignment of domain namespaces, directory layout, and storage identifiers allows file system constraints and static analysis tools to surface conflicts early and reason about upgrades proactively.

### Example Directory

*This directory structure is illustrative and does not mandate a specific naming convention.*  
*Subdirectory names such as `storage/` are illustrative and may contain both storage layout definitions and internal domain logic.*

```text
contracts/
├── diamond/
│   ├── storage/
│   │   └── DiamondStorage.sol
│   └── facets/
│       ├── DiamondCutFacet.sol
│       └── DiamondLoupeFacet.sol
│
├── allowance/
│   ├── storage/
│   │   └── AllowanceStorage.sol
│   └── facets/
│       └── AllowanceFacet.sol
│
└── pausable/
    └── storage/
        └── PausableStorage.sol
```

## Rationale

From the beginning, the Diamond Standard (ERC-2535) was designed around the relationship between **function selectors** and **storage positions**, not around facets themselves.  
Facets are replaceable units of logic — the `diamondCut` operation only replaces, removes or adds code — but the **storage layout persists** and defines the actual state continuity of the contract.  

A clear example of this can be found in the reference Diamond implementation `diamond-1-hardhat`.

Both `DiamondCutFacet` and `DiamondLoupeFacet` interact with the same `LibDiamond` storage.  
Although these facets serve different purposes — one mutating, one querying — they share the same domain (`diamond.storage`).  
This demonstrates that **storage belongs to the domain**, not the facet, facets merely provide interfaces for logic to read or mutate that domain.

Over time, many implementations have treated facets as the primary boundary of responsibility, grouping logic and storage together without recognizing that **storage domains** are the true architectural anchors.  
This misunderstanding leads to inconsistent storage management, overlapping identifiers and fragile upgrade paths where one facet unintentionally corrupts another’s state.

The **domain-centric approach** restores the original intent of the Diamond:  
Selectors (facets) operate *through* domains, not *as* domains.  
Each domain defines its own persistent storage struct and identifier, while facets merely act as interfaces that execute logic against it.  

This shift decouples storage from logic when separation is desired, while still allowing tightly coupled designs when intentional.  
It enables:

- Independent evolution of business logic without rewriting storage.  
- Clear separation between reusable system components and app-specific domains.
- A deterministic mapping between identifiers and state.

By formalizing this pattern, Diamond architecture becomes safer, more transparent and easier to extend — re-aligning practice with its original design philosophy.


### Special Case: Domain-Facet Overlap

There is a special case within this separation principle where a domain and its facet intentionally represent the same entity.
A great example of this approach can be found in the `Compose project`

In Compose, a facet and its associated domain are explicitly mapped into a single entity.  
This is a deliberate design choice that enables predefined, plug-and-play standard facets with a well-defined storage layout and reduced collision risk.

This approach is suitable for systems that prioritize modular composition and standardized functionality, allowing developers to safely integrate common features with predictable behavior.  
However, when implementing custom or project-specific logic, domains and facets SHOULD still be treated as separate entities.

Maintaining this separation preserves clarity of ownership, supports future upgrades, and improves the long-term scalability of complex Diamond-based architectures.

## Backwards Compatibility

This proposal is fully backward-compatible with both ERC-2535 (Diamond Standard) and ERC-8042 (Diamond Storage Identifier).  
It introduces no breaking changes, no new opcodes, and no modifications to existing protocol mechanics.

Instead, it defines an architectural convention that extends and reinforces the modularity and upgrade safety of ERC-2535, as well as the human-readable storage identifier design introduced by ERC-8042.

Developers are encouraged to continue following both standards to maintain interoperability while benefiting from domain-based organization and reduced storage collision risk.


## Reference Implementation

Minimal implementation examples demonstrating the convention:

**Diamond Domain**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.diamond.storage");

    struct DiamondStorage {
        mapping(bytes4 => address) selectorToFacet;
        address contractOwner;
    }

    function diamondStorage() pure returns (DiamondStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = DIAMOND_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

**Business Domain (Allowance)**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.business.allowance.v1");

    struct AllowanceStorage {
        mapping(address => mapping(address => uint256)) allowance;
    }

    function allowanceStorage() pure returns (AllowanceStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = ALLOWANCE_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

**System Domain (Pausable)**

```solidity
    bytes32 constant PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION = keccak256("org.project.system.pausable.v2");

    struct PausableStorage {
        mapping(bytes4 => bool) isSelectorPaused;
    }

    function pausableStorage() pure returns (PausableStorage storage s) {
        bytes32 position = PAUSABLE_STORAGE_POSITION;
        assembly {
            s.slot := position
        }
    }
```

Each domain defines and owns its storage independently.
Facets interact with domain-owned storage definitions, supporting safe upgrades and avoiding unintended storage overlap.

## Security Considerations

This pattern strengthens the security model of Diamond-based systems by introducing explicit and deterministic storage identifiers.

By separating domains and enforcing consistent naming rules, it reduces the risk of:

- Storage collisions between unrelated facets or upgrades.
- Human errors caused by inconsistent or reused identifiers.
- State corruption during upgrades or extensions.

Each domain owns its ERC-8042 storage identifier.
When combined with append-only storage layout upgrades, this allows storage evolution without interfering with existing state.

This clarity also improves auditability and supports static analysis tooling when analyzing storage safety across upgrades.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
