---
eip: 7714
title: Simple Permissions Checks
description: Standardized interface for checking user permissions
author: TODO
discussions-to: TODO
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-05-24
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

The following standard provides a generic method for checking whether a given account has permissions on a contract

This can be used for permissions such as token blacklists, minimum token holdings, vaults with allowlists built in, and any other permissions relevant to smart contract execution.

## Motivation

While there has been standards focused on defining permissions for ERC20 token transfers (e.g. ERC-1404), there is no standard that enables any permission for any arbitrary contract to be retrieved.

## Specification

### Methods

#### `isPermissioned(address)`

Returns `true` if the `user` is permissioned to interact with the contract.

```yaml
- name: isPermissioned
  type: function
  stateMutability: view

  inputs:
    - name: user
      type: address

  outputs:
    - name: status
      type: bool
```

### [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) support

Smart contracts implementing this Vault standard MUST implement the [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) `supportsInterface` function.

Contracts MUST return the constant value `true` if `0x78d77ecb` is passed through the `interfaceID` argument.

## Rationale

### Contract-level check

The standard only supports a contract-level check, where permission for a user is either granted on the contract level or not. Contracts may implement more granular permissions, e.g. for token transfers on an ERC-20 implementation where a user can receive tokens but not send them. In this case, it is up to the contracts to decide how to expose these permissions to integrations. This can be done by implementing additional permission checks that are not standardized.

### Mandated Support for [ERC-165](./eip-165.md)

Implementing support for [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) is mandated because it simplifies integrations, which can check in a gas efficient manner whether the permissions standard is implemented by a contract.

## Security Considerations

Users should not assume having a permission ensures their calls will be guaranteed to succeed.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
