ERCS/erc-7573.md, before:

---
eip: 7573
title: Conditional-upon-Transfer-Decryption for DvP
description: A Proposal for a Lean and Functional Delivery versus Payment
author: Christian Fries (@cfries), Peter Kohl-Landgraf (@pekola)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7573-conditional-upon-transfer-decryption-for-delivery-versus-payment/17232
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-12-05
---


## Abstract

The interfaces in this proposal model a functional transaction scheme to establish a secure *delivery-versus-payment*
across two blockchains, where a) no intermediary is required and b) one of the two chains
can securely interact with a stateless "decryption oracle". Here, *delivery-versus-payment* refers to the exchange of,
e.g., an asset against a payment, however, the concept is generic to make a transfer of one token on one
chain (e.g., the payment) conditional to the successful transfer of another token on another chain (e.g., the asset).

The scheme is realized by two smart contracts, one on each chain.
One smart contract implements the `ILockingContract` interface on one chain (e.g. the "asset chain"), and another smart contract implements the `IDecryptionContract` interface on the other chain (e.g., the "payment chain").
The smart contract implementing `ILockingContract` locks a token (e.g., the asset) on its chain until a key is presented that will encrypt to one of two given values.
The smart contract implementing `IDecryptionContract`, decrypts one of two keys (via the decryption oracle) conditional to the success or failure of the token transfer (e.g., the payment). For the decryption, a stateless decryption oracle is attached to the chain running `IDecryptionContract`.

## Motivation

Within the domain of financial transactions and distributed ledger technology (DLT), the Hash-Linked Contract (HLC) concept has been recognized as valuable and has been thoroughly investigated.
The concept may help to solve the challenge of delivery-versus-payment (DvP), especially in cases where the asset chain and payment system (which may be a chain, too) are separated.
A prominent application of smart contract realizing a secure DvP is that of buying an asset, where the asset is manages on one chain (the asset chain), but the payments are executed on another chain (the payment chain).
The proposed solutions are based on an API-based interaction mechanism which bridges the communication between a so-called asset chain and a corresponding
payment system or requires complex and problematic time-locks.[^1]

Implementing the interfaces `ILockingContract` and `IDecryptionContract` allows to facilliate the secure delivery-versus-payment with less overhead, especially, with a stateless oracle.[^2]

## Specification

### Methods

#### Smart Contract on the chain that performs the locking (e.g. the asset chain)

The following methods specify the functionality of the smart contract implementing
the locking. For further information, please also look at the interface documentation `ILockingContract.sol`.

##### Initiation of Transfer: `inceptTransfer`

```solidity
function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSeller) external;
```

Called from the buyer of the token to initiate token transfer. Emits a `TransferIncepted` event.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `from` is the address of the seller (the address of the buyer is message.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSeller` is an encryption of the key that can be used by the seller to (re-)claim the token. See below on "encryption".

##### Initiation of Transfer: `confirmTransfer`

```solidity
function confirmTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedBuyer) external;
```

Called from the seller of the token to confirm token transfer. Emits a `TransferConfirmed` event.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `to` is the address of the buyer (the address of the seller is message.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedBuyer` is an encryption of the key that can be used by the buyer to claim the token.

If the trade specification, that is, the quadruppel (`id`, `amount`, `from`, `to`), in a call to `confirmTransfer`
matches that of a previous call to `inceptTransfer`, and the balance is sufficient, the corresponding `anount`
of tokens is locked (transferred from `from` to the smart contract) and `TransferConfirmed` is emitted.

##### Transfer: `transferWithKey`

```solidity
function transferWithKey(bytes32 id, string memory key) external;
```

Called from either the buyer or the seller of the token
of the trade with id `id`.

If the method is called from the buyer (`to`) *and* the encryption of `key` matches `keyEncryptedBuyer`,
then the locked tokens are transferred to the buyer (`to`). This emits `TokenClaimed`.

If the method is called from the seller (`from`) *and* the encryption of `key` matches `keyEncryptedSeller`,
then the locked tokens are transferred (back) to the seller (`to`). This emits `TokenReclaimed`.

##### Summary

The interface `ILockingContract`:

```solidity
interface ILockingContract {
    event TransferIncepted(address initiator, bytes32 id);
    event TransferConfirmed(address confirmer, bytes32 id);
    event TokenClaimed(bytes32 id, string key);
    event TokenReclaimed(bytes32 id, string key);

    function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSeller) external;
    function confirmTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedBuyer) external;
    function transferWithKey(bytes32 id, string memory key) external;
}
```

#### Smart Contract on the other chain that performs the conditional decryption (e.g. the payment chain)

The following methods specify the functionality of the smart contract implementing
the conditional decryption. For further information, please also look at the interface documentation `IDecryptionContract.sol`.

##### Initiation of Transfer: `inceptTransfer`

```solidity
function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the receiver of the amount to initiate payment transfer. Emits a `PaymentTransferIncepted`.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `from` is the address of the sender of the payment (the address of the receiver is msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSuccess` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer is successful in a call to `transferAndDecrypt`.
The parameter `keyEncryptedFailure` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer failed in a call to `transferAndDecrypt` or if `cancelAndDecrypt`is successful.

##### Transfer: `transferAndDecrypt`

```solidity
function transferAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the sender of the amount to initiate completion of the payment transfer. Emits a `TransferKeyRequested` and `TransferKeyReleased` with keys depending on completion success.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `to` is the address of the receiver of the payment (the sender of the payment (from) is implicitly the msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSuccess` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer is successful.
The parameter `keyEncryptedFailure` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer failed.

The method will not decrpt any key and not perfrom a transfer of a payment if the values (`id`, `amount`, `from` `to`, `keyEncryptedSuccess`, `keyEncryptedFailure`)
do not match a previous call to `inceptTransfer`.

##### Cancelation of Transfer: `cancelAndDecrypt`

```solidity
function cancelAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the receiver of the amount to cancel payment transfer (cancels the incept transfer).

The method must be called from the caller of a previous call to `inceptTransfer`
with the exact same arguments an cancels this specific transfer.

##### Summary

The interface `IDecryptionContract`:

```solidity
interface IDecryptionContract {
    event TransferIncepted(address initiator, bytes32 id, int amount);
    event TransferKeyRequested(bytes32 id, string encryptedKey);
    event TransferKeyReleased(bytes32 id, bool success, string key);

    function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
    function transferAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
    function cancelAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
}
```

### Sequence diagram of delivery versus payment

The interplay of the two smart contracts is summarized
in the following sequence diagram:

![image info](../assets/eip-7573/doc/DvP-Seq-Diag.png)


## Rationale

The protocol tries to be parsimonious. The transfer
is associated with a (preferable unique) `id` possibly
generated by some additional interaction of the trading
parties.

The `key` and the `encryptedKey` arguments are strings to
allow the flexible use of different encryption schemes.

## Security Considerations

No known security issues up to now.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).



[^1]:
```csl-json
    {
      "type": "article",
      "id": 1,
      "author": [
        {
          "family": "La Rocca",
          "given": "Rosario"
        },
        {
          "family": "Mancini",
          "given": "Riccardo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Benedetti",
          "given": "Marco"
        },
        {
          "family": "Caruso",
          "given": "Matteo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Cossu",
          "given": "Stefano"
        },
        {
          "family": "Galano",
          "given": "Giuseppe"
        },
        {
          "family": "Mancini",
          "given": "Simone"
        },
        {
          "family": "Marcelli",
          "given": "Gabriele"
        },
        {
          "family": "Martella",
          "given": "Piero"
        },
        {
          "family": "Nardelli",
          "given": "Matteo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Oliviero",
          "given": "Ciro"
        }
      ],
      "DOI": "10.2139/ssrn.4386904",
      "title": "Integrating DLTs with Market Infrastructures: Analysis and Proof-of-Concept for Secure DvP between TIPS and DLT Platforms",
      "original-date": {
        "date-parts": [
          [2022, 7, 19]
        ]
      },
      "URL": "http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4386904"
    }
    ```

[^2]:
```csl-json
    {
      "type": "article",
      "id": 2,
      "author": [
        {
          "family": "Fries",
          "given": "Christian"
        },
        {
          "family": "Kohl-Landgraf",
          "given": "Peter"
        }
      ],
      "DOI": "10.2139/ssrn.4628811",
      "title": "A Proposal for a Lean and Functional Delivery versus Payment across two Blockchains",
      "original-date": {
        "date-parts": [
          [2023, 11, 9]
        ]
      },
      "URL": "http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628811"
    }
    ```

Commit message:

Rewrote specification with implementation details. Added rationale.

ERCS/erc-7573.md, after:

---
eip: 7573
title: Conditional-upon-Transfer-Decryption for DvP
description: A Proposal for a Lean and Functional Delivery versus Payment
author: Christian Fries (@cfries), Peter Kohl-Landgraf (@pekola)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7573-conditional-upon-transfer-decryption-for-delivery-versus-payment/17232
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-12-05
---


## Abstract

The interfaces in this proposal model a functional transaction scheme to establish a secure *delivery-versus-payment*
across two blockchains, where a) no intermediary is required and b) one of the two chains
can securely interact with a stateless "decryption oracle". Here, *delivery-versus-payment* refers to the exchange of,
e.g., an asset against a payment; however, the concept is generic to make a transfer of one token on one
chain (e.g., the payment) conditional to the successful transfer of another token on another chain (e.g., the asset).

The scheme is realized by two smart contracts, one on each chain.
One smart contract implements the `ILockingContract` interface on one chain (e.g. the "asset chain"), and another smart contract implements the `IDecryptionContract` interface on the other chain (e.g., the "payment chain").
The smart contract implementing `ILockingContract` locks a token (e.g., the asset) on its chain until a key is presented to encrypt to one of two given values.
The smart contract implementing `IDecryptionContract`, decrypts one of two keys (via the decryption oracle) conditional to the success or failure of the token transfer (e.g., the payment). For the decryption, a stateless decryption oracle is attached to the chain running `IDecryptionContract`.

## Motivation

Within the domain of financial transactions and distributed ledger technology (DLT), the Hash-Linked Contract (HLC) concept has been recognized as valuable and has been thoroughly investigated.
The concept may help to solve the challenge of delivery-versus-payment (DvP), especially in cases where the asset chain and payment system (which may be a chain, too) are separated.
A prominent application of smart contract realizing a secure DvP is that of buying an asset, where the asset is managed on one chain (the asset chain), but the payments are executed on another chain (the payment chain).
The proposed solutions are based on an API-based interaction mechanism which bridges the communication between a so-called asset chain and a corresponding
payment system or requires complex and problematic time-locks.[^1]

Implementing the interfaces `ILockingContract` and `IDecryptionContract` allows for the facilitation of secure delivery-versus-payment with less overhead, especially with a stateless oracle.[^2]

## Specification

### Methods

#### Smart Contract on the chain that performs the locking (e.g. the asset chain)

The following methods specify the functionality of the smart contract implementing
the locking. For further information, please also look at the interface documentation `ILockingContract.sol`.

##### Initiation of Transfer: `inceptTransfer`

```solidity
function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSeller) external;
```

Called from the buyer of the token to initiate token transfer. Emits a `TransferIncepted` event.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `from` is the address of the seller (the address of the buyer is msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSeller` is an encryption of the key that can be used by the seller to (re-)claim the token. See below on "encryption".

##### Initiation of Transfer: `confirmTransfer`

```solidity
function confirmTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedBuyer) external;
```

Called from the seller of the token to confirm token transfer. Emits a `TransferConfirmed` event.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `to` is the address of the buyer (the address of the seller is msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedBuyer` is an encryption of the key that can be used by the buyer to claim the token.

If the trade specification, that is, the quadruppel (`id`, `amount`, `from`, `to`), in a call to `confirmTransfer`
matches that of a previous call to `inceptTransfer`, and the balance is sufficient, the corresponding `amount`
of tokens is locked (transferred from `from` to the smart contract) and `TransferConfirmed` is emitted.

##### Transfer: `transferWithKey`

```solidity
function transferWithKey(bytes32 id, string memory key) external;
```

Called from either the buyer or the seller of the token
of the trade with id `id`.

If the method is called from the buyer (`to`) *and* the encryption of `key` matches `keyEncryptedBuyer`,
then the locked tokens are transferred to the buyer (`to`). This emits `TokenClaimed`.

If the method is called from the seller (`from`) *and* the encryption of `key` matches `keyEncryptedSeller`,
then the locked tokens are transferred (back) to the seller (`to`). This emits `TokenReclaimed`.

##### Summary

The interface `ILockingContract`:

```solidity
interface ILockingContract {
    event TransferIncepted(address initiator, bytes32 id);
    event TransferConfirmed(address confirmer, bytes32 id);
    event TokenClaimed(bytes32 id, string key);
    event TokenReclaimed(bytes32 id, string key);

    function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSeller) external;
    function confirmTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedBuyer) external;
    function transferWithKey(bytes32 id, string memory key) external;
}
```

#### Smart Contract on the other chain that performs the conditional decryption (e.g. the payment chain)

The following methods specify the functionality of the smart contract implementing
the conditional decryption. For further information, please also look at the interface documentation `IDecryptionContract.sol`.

##### Initiation of Transfer: `inceptTransfer`

```solidity
function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the receiver of the amount to initiate payment transfer. Emits a `PaymentTransferIncepted`.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `from` is the address of the sender of the payment (the address of the receiver is msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSuccess` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer is successful in a call to `transferAndDecrypt`.
The parameter `keyEncryptedFailure` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer fails in a call to `transferAndDecrypt` or if `cancelAndDecrypt`is successful.

##### Transfer: `transferAndDecrypt`

```solidity
function transferAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the sender of the amount to initiate completion of the payment transfer. Emits a `TransferKeyRequested` and `TransferKeyReleased` with keys depending on completion success.
The parameter `id` is an identifier of the trade. The parameter `to` is the address of the receiver of the payment (the sender of the payment (from) is implicitly the msg.sender).
The parameter `keyEncryptedSuccess` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer is successful.
The parameter `keyEncryptedFailure` is an encryption of the key and will be decrypted if the transfer failed.

The method will not decrypt any key and not perfrom a transfer of a payment if the values (`id`, `amount`, `from` `to`, `keyEncryptedSuccess`, `keyEncryptedFailure`)
do not match a previous call to `inceptTransfer`.

##### Cancelation of Transfer: `cancelAndDecrypt`

```solidity
function cancelAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
```

Called from the receiver of the amount to cancel payment transfer (cancels the incept transfer).

The method must be called from the caller of a previous call to `inceptTransfer`
with the exact same arguments and cancels this specific transfer.

##### Summary

The interface `IDecryptionContract`:

```solidity
interface IDecryptionContract {
    event TransferIncepted(address initiator, bytes32 id, int amount);
    event TransferKeyRequested(bytes32 id, string encryptedKey);
    event TransferKeyReleased(bytes32 id, bool success, string key);

    function inceptTransfer(bytes32 id, int amount, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
    function transferAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, int amount, address to, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
    function cancelAndDecrypt(bytes32 id, address from, string memory keyEncryptedSuccess, string memory keyEncryptedFailure) external;
}
```

### Encryption and Decryption

The linkage of the two smart contract relies on use of a `key` and `encryptedKey`.
The implementation is free to support several encryption methods for
as long as the decryption oracle supports it.

The encryption is performed with the public key of
the decryption oracle, which is known to both parties.

It is implicitly assumed that the two parties may check that
the strings `keyEncryptedBuyer` and `keyEncryptedSeller` are
in a valid format.

### Sequence diagram of delivery versus payment

The interplay of the two smart contracts is summarized
in the following sequence diagram:

![image info](../assets/eip-7573/doc/DvP-Seq-Diag.png)

## Rationale

The protocol tries to be parsimonious. The transfer
is associated with a (preferable unique) `id` possibly
generated by some additional interaction of the trading
parties.

The `key` and the `encryptedKey` arguments are strings to
allow the flexible use of different encryption schemes.
The decryption/encryption scheme should be inferable from the contents
of the `encryptedKey`.

## Security Considerations

No known security issues up to now.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).



[^1]:
```csl-json
    {
      "type": "article",
      "id": 1,
      "author": [
        {
          "family": "La Rocca",
          "given": "Rosario"
        },
        {
          "family": "Mancini",
          "given": "Riccardo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Benedetti",
          "given": "Marco"
        },
        {
          "family": "Caruso",
          "given": "Matteo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Cossu",
          "given": "Stefano"
        },
        {
          "family": "Galano",
          "given": "Giuseppe"
        },
        {
          "family": "Mancini",
          "given": "Simone"
        },
        {
          "family": "Marcelli",
          "given": "Gabriele"
        },
        {
          "family": "Martella",
          "given": "Piero"
        },
        {
          "family": "Nardelli",
          "given": "Matteo"
        },
        {
          "family": "Oliviero",
          "given": "Ciro"
        }
      ],
      "DOI": "10.2139/ssrn.4386904",
      "title": "Integrating DLTs with Market Infrastructures: Analysis and Proof-of-Concept for Secure DvP between TIPS and DLT Platforms",
      "original-date": {
        "date-parts": [
          [2022, 7, 19]
        ]
      },
      "URL": "http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4386904"
    }
    ```

[^2]:
```csl-json
    {
      "type": "article",
      "id": 2,
      "author": [
        {
          "family": "Fries",
          "given": "Christian"
        },
        {
          "family": "Kohl-Landgraf",
          "given": "Peter"
        }
      ],
      "DOI": "10.2139/ssrn.4628811",
      "title": "A Proposal for a Lean and Functional Delivery versus Payment across two Blockchains",
      "original-date": {
        "date-parts": [
          [2023, 11, 9]
        ]
      },
      "URL": "http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628811"
    }
    ```
