ERCS/erc-8041.md, before:

---
eip: 8041
title: Fixed-Supply Agent NFT Collections
description: Create fixed-supply collections of ERC-8004 Agent NFTs with mint number tracking
author: Prem Makeig (@nxt3d)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8041-fixed-supply-agent-nft-collections/25656
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-11
requires: 7572, 8004
---

## Abstract

This standard defines an interface for creating fixed-supply collections of Agent NFTs that are registered in an [ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md) Agent Registry. While ERC-8004 provides an unlimited mint registry for agent identities, many use cases require limited collections. ERC-8041 provides a standard way to create such collections while maintaining the association between agents and their collection through onchain metadata and mint number tracking.

## Motivation

[ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md) establishes a singleton registry for AI Agent identity tokens with unlimited minting capability. This open registration model serves many use cases, but there is a clear need for:

1. **Fixed-supply collections**: Ability to create limited editions (e.g., "Genesis 100", "Season 1")
2. **Collection metadata**: Associate agents with specific collections and track their provenance
3. **Mint number tracking**: Permanent record of each agent's position in the collection (#1 of 1000)
4. **Time-gated releases**: Collections that activate at specific block numbers
5. **Curated drops**: Controlled minting by collection creators rather than open registration

This standard enables these use cases while leveraging the existing ERC-8004 registry infrastructure.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119.html) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174.html).

### Collection Structure

Every compliant collection contract MUST maintain the following collection properties:

- `maxSupply`: Maximum number of agents that can exist in the collection
- `currentSupply`: Current number of agents minted in the collection
- `startBlock`: Block number when minting becomes available
- `open`: Boolean indicating if the collection is currently accepting mints

### Core Interface

Compliant collection contracts MUST implement the `IERC8041Collection` interface:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.25;

interface IERC8041Collection {
    /// @notice Emitted when the collection is created
    /// @param maxSupply Maximum number of agents in the collection
    /// @param startBlock Block number when minting becomes available
    event CollectionCreated(uint256 maxSupply, uint256 startBlock);

    /// @notice Emitted when an agent is minted in the collection
    /// @param agentId The ERC-8004 token ID of the agent in the registry
    /// @param mintNumber The agent's position in the collection (1-indexed)
    /// @param owner The address that received the agent
    event AgentMinted(uint256 indexed agentId, uint256 mintNumber, address indexed owner);

    /// @notice Get the mint number for a specific agent
    /// @param agentId The ERC-8004 token ID of the agent
    /// @return mintNumber The agent's position in the collection (1-indexed, e.g., "5 of 1000")
    ///         Returns 0 if the agent was not minted through this collection
    function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256 mintNumber);

    /// @notice Get the details of the collection
    /// @return maxSupply Maximum number of agents that can be minted
    /// @return currentSupply Current number of agents minted
    /// @return startBlock Block number when minting becomes available
    /// @return open Whether the collection is currently open for minting
    function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (
        uint256 maxSupply,
        uint256 currentSupply,
        uint256 startBlock,
        bool open
    );
}
```

### Required Functions

Every compliant collection contract MUST implement the following functions:

- `function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256 mintNumber)` - Returns the mint number for a given agent ID (0 if not in collection)
- `function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (uint256 maxSupply, uint256 currentSupply, uint256 startBlock, bool open)` - Returns the collection's configuration and current state

### Required Events

Every compliant collection contract MUST emit the following events:

- `event AgentMinted(uint256 indexed agentId, uint256 mintNumber, address indexed owner)` - MUST be emitted when an agent is added to the collection
- `event CollectionCreated(uint256 maxSupply, uint256 startBlock)` - MUST be emitted when the collection is created/initialized

### Required Behavior

#### Collection Association

When an agent is minted through a collection contract, the contract MUST:

1. Register the agent in the ERC-8004 registry
2. Assign a sequential mint number starting from 1
3. Store the agent's mint number internally
4. Write collection metadata to the agent's Onchain Metadata using the key `"agent-collection"`
5. Emit an `AgentMinted` event

The collection metadata format SHOULD be:

```solidity
abi.encodePacked(
    address collectionAddress,  // 20 bytes: the collection contract address
    uint8 mintNumberLength,     // 1 byte: length of mint number bytes
    bytes mintNumberBytes       // variable: the mint number (compact encoding)
)
```

This enables any party to:

- Look up which collection an agent belongs to
- Verify the collection contract address
- Decode the mint number from the metadata
- Query additional information from the collection contract

#### Mint Number Tracking

Mint numbers MUST:

- Start at 1 (not 0)
- Increment sequentially as agents are minted
- Be permanent and immutable once assigned
- Be queryable via `getAgentMintNumber()`

#### Supply Management

Collection contracts MUST:

- Enforce `maxSupply` limits (prevent minting beyond maximum)
- Track `currentSupply` accurately
- Emit `AgentMinted` events for each successful mint
- Respect the `startBlock` timing constraint

### Optional Features

The following features are OPTIONAL and left to implementation choice:

- **Access Control**: Who can mint (owner, public, allowlist, etc.)
- **Payment Model**: Free, paid (ETH/ERC-20), or other mechanisms
- **Collection State**: Open/close mechanisms, locking, pausing
- **Batch Minting**: Single or batch mint functions

#### ERC-7572: Contract-level Metadata

Collections SHOULD implement [ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md) contract metadata to provide collection-level information such as name, description, image, and external links. This is done by implementing:

```solidity
function contractURI() external view returns (string memory);
```

The URI should point to a JSON file following the [ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md) metadata schema.

## Rationale

ERC-8004 provides an open mint registry where anyone can register agent identities without restrictions. While this unlimited minting model serves many use cases, there is a clear need for limited-supply collections of agents. ERC-8041 addresses this by defining a standard interface for creating fixed-supply collections that leverage the existing ERC-8004 registry infrastructure while adding collection-specific constraints, metadata, and provenance tracking through mint numbers.

## Backwards Compatibility

This standard is fully backwards compatible with:

- **[ERC-721](./erc-721.md)**: Agents remain standard ERC-721 tokens
- **[ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md)**: Leverages existing registry infrastructure
- **[ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md)**: Optionally supports contract-level metadata

## Reference Implementation

A minimal reference implementation demonstrating the core requirements of ERC-8041:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.25;

import {IERC8004AgentRegistry} from "./interfaces/IERC8004AgentRegistry.sol";
import {IERC8041Collection} from "./interfaces/IERC8041Collection.sol";

/**
 * @title ERC8041MinimalCollection
 * @notice Minimal reference implementation of ERC-8041
 * @dev Users supply pre-registered agent IDs to add to collection
 */
contract ERC8041MinimalCollection is IERC8041Collection {
    IERC8004AgentRegistry public immutable agentRegistry;
    
    uint256 public immutable maxSupply;
    uint256 public currentSupply;
    uint256 public immutable startBlock;
    bool public constant open = true;
    
    mapping(uint256 agentId => uint256 mintNumber) private _agentMintNumber;
    
    constructor(
        IERC8004AgentRegistry _agentRegistry,
        uint256 _maxSupply
    ) {
        agentRegistry = _agentRegistry;
        maxSupply = _maxSupply;
        startBlock = block.number;
        
        emit CollectionCreated(_maxSupply, block.number);
    }
    
    /**
     * @notice Add an existing agent to the collection
     * @param agentId The ID of an agent already registered in ERC-8004
     */
    function mint(uint256 agentId) external {
        require(currentSupply < maxSupply, "Supply exceeded");
        require(agentRegistry.ownerOf(agentId) == msg.sender, "Not agent owner");
        require(_agentMintNumber[agentId] == 0, "Already in collection");
        
        currentSupply++;
        uint256 mintNumber = currentSupply;
        _agentMintNumber[agentId] = mintNumber;
        
        // Store collection metadata in the agent's onchain metadata
        bytes memory mintNumberBytes = abi.encode(mintNumber);
        uint8 mintNumberLength = uint8(mintNumberBytes.length);
        bytes memory collectionMetadata = abi.encodePacked(
            address(this),      // 20 bytes: collection contract address
            mintNumberLength,   // 1 byte: length of mint number bytes
            mintNumberBytes     // variable: the mint number (compact encoding)
        );
        
        IERC8004AgentRegistry(address(agentRegistry)).setMetadata(
            agentId,
            "agent-collection",
            collectionMetadata
        );
        
        emit AgentMinted(agentId, mintNumber, msg.sender);
    }
    
    function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256) {
        return _agentMintNumber[agentId];
    }
    
    function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (
        uint256 _maxSupply,
        uint256 _currentSupply,
        uint256 _startBlock,
        bool _open
    ) {
        return (maxSupply, currentSupply, startBlock, open);
    }
}
```

This implementation demonstrates:

- **Single collection per contract**: Simplest deployment model
- **No access control**: Anyone can add their agents to the collection
- **Always open**: Collection is permanently open once deployed
- **Bring-your-own-agent model**: Users register agents separately, then add them to the collection
- **Full mint number tracking**: Each agent receives a sequential position number
- **Automatic start block**: Collection starts at deployment block

## Security Considerations

The owner of an ERC-8004 agent can modify or remove the "agent-collection" metadata stored on their agent at any time. Client applications MUST NOT rely solely on this metadata to verify collection membership. Instead, clients SHOULD:

1. Query the collection contract directly using `getAgentMintNumber(agentId)` to verify membership
2. Use the metadata as a convenience lookup to discover which collection to query, but always verify with the collection contract itself
3. Treat a mint number of `0` from the collection contract as definitive proof that an agent is not part of that collection

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Rewrite abstract to remove self-references
Remove 'this standard' and 'ERC-8041' references from abstract.
Focus on describing what can be done and how it works rather
than referencing the standard itself.

ERCS/erc-8041.md, after:

---
eip: 8041
title: Fixed-Supply Agent NFT Collections
description: Create fixed-supply collections of ERC-8004 Agent NFTs with mint number tracking
author: Prem Makeig (@nxt3d)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8041-fixed-supply-agent-nft-collections/25656
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-11
requires: 7572, 8004
---

## Abstract

An interface for creating fixed-supply collections of Agent NFTs that are registered in an [ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md) Agent Registry. While ERC-8004 provides an unlimited mint registry for agent identities, many use cases require limited collections. Collections can be created with fixed supply limits while maintaining the association between agents and their collection through onchain metadata and mint number tracking.

## Motivation

[ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md) establishes a singleton registry for AI Agent identity tokens with unlimited minting capability. This open registration model serves many use cases, but there is a clear need for:

1. **Fixed-supply collections**: Ability to create limited editions (e.g., "Genesis 100", "Season 1")
2. **Collection metadata**: Associate agents with specific collections and track their provenance
3. **Mint number tracking**: Permanent record of each agent's position in the collection (#1 of 1000)
4. **Time-gated releases**: Collections that activate at specific block numbers
5. **Curated drops**: Controlled minting by collection creators rather than open registration

This standard enables these use cases while leveraging the existing ERC-8004 registry infrastructure.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119.html) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174.html).

### Collection Structure

Every compliant collection contract MUST maintain the following collection properties:

- `maxSupply`: Maximum number of agents that can exist in the collection
- `currentSupply`: Current number of agents minted in the collection
- `startBlock`: Block number when minting becomes available
- `open`: Boolean indicating if the collection is currently accepting mints

### Core Interface

Compliant collection contracts MUST implement the `IERC8041Collection` interface:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.25;

interface IERC8041Collection {
    /// @notice Emitted when the collection is created
    /// @param maxSupply Maximum number of agents in the collection
    /// @param startBlock Block number when minting becomes available
    event CollectionCreated(uint256 maxSupply, uint256 startBlock);

    /// @notice Emitted when an agent is minted in the collection
    /// @param agentId The ERC-8004 token ID of the agent in the registry
    /// @param mintNumber The agent's position in the collection (1-indexed)
    /// @param owner The address that received the agent
    event AgentMinted(uint256 indexed agentId, uint256 mintNumber, address indexed owner);

    /// @notice Get the mint number for a specific agent
    /// @param agentId The ERC-8004 token ID of the agent
    /// @return mintNumber The agent's position in the collection (1-indexed, e.g., "5 of 1000")
    ///         Returns 0 if the agent was not minted through this collection
    function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256 mintNumber);

    /// @notice Get the details of the collection
    /// @return maxSupply Maximum number of agents that can be minted
    /// @return currentSupply Current number of agents minted
    /// @return startBlock Block number when minting becomes available
    /// @return open Whether the collection is currently open for minting
    function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (
        uint256 maxSupply,
        uint256 currentSupply,
        uint256 startBlock,
        bool open
    );
}
```

### Required Functions

Every compliant collection contract MUST implement the following functions:

- `function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256 mintNumber)` - Returns the mint number for a given agent ID (0 if not in collection)
- `function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (uint256 maxSupply, uint256 currentSupply, uint256 startBlock, bool open)` - Returns the collection's configuration and current state

### Required Events

Every compliant collection contract MUST emit the following events:

- `event AgentMinted(uint256 indexed agentId, uint256 mintNumber, address indexed owner)` - MUST be emitted when an agent is added to the collection
- `event CollectionCreated(uint256 maxSupply, uint256 startBlock)` - MUST be emitted when the collection is created/initialized

### Required Behavior

#### Collection Association

When an agent is minted through a collection contract, the contract MUST:

1. Register the agent in the ERC-8004 registry
2. Assign a sequential mint number starting from 1
3. Store the agent's mint number internally
4. Write collection metadata to the agent's Onchain Metadata using the key `"agent-collection"`
5. Emit an `AgentMinted` event

The collection metadata format SHOULD be:

```solidity
abi.encodePacked(
    address collectionAddress,  // 20 bytes: the collection contract address
    uint8 mintNumberLength,     // 1 byte: length of mint number bytes
    bytes mintNumberBytes       // variable: the mint number (compact encoding)
)
```

This enables any party to:

- Look up which collection an agent belongs to
- Verify the collection contract address
- Decode the mint number from the metadata
- Query additional information from the collection contract

#### Mint Number Tracking

Mint numbers MUST:

- Start at 1 (not 0)
- Increment sequentially as agents are minted
- Be permanent and immutable once assigned
- Be queryable via `getAgentMintNumber()`

#### Supply Management

Collection contracts MUST:

- Enforce `maxSupply` limits (prevent minting beyond maximum)
- Track `currentSupply` accurately
- Emit `AgentMinted` events for each successful mint
- Respect the `startBlock` timing constraint

### Optional Features

The following features are OPTIONAL and left to implementation choice:

- **Access Control**: Who can mint (owner, public, allowlist, etc.)
- **Payment Model**: Free, paid (ETH/ERC-20), or other mechanisms
- **Collection State**: Open/close mechanisms, locking, pausing
- **Batch Minting**: Single or batch mint functions

#### ERC-7572: Contract-level Metadata

Collections SHOULD implement [ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md) contract metadata to provide collection-level information such as name, description, image, and external links. This is done by implementing:

```solidity
function contractURI() external view returns (string memory);
```

The URI should point to a JSON file following the [ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md) metadata schema.

## Rationale

ERC-8004 provides an open mint registry where anyone can register agent identities without restrictions. While this unlimited minting model serves many use cases, there is a clear need for limited-supply collections of agents. ERC-8041 addresses this by defining a standard interface for creating fixed-supply collections that leverage the existing ERC-8004 registry infrastructure while adding collection-specific constraints, metadata, and provenance tracking through mint numbers.

## Backwards Compatibility

This standard is fully backwards compatible with:

- **[ERC-721](./erc-721.md)**: Agents remain standard ERC-721 tokens
- **[ERC-8004](./erc-8004.md)**: Leverages existing registry infrastructure
- **[ERC-7572](./erc-7572.md)**: Optionally supports contract-level metadata

## Reference Implementation

A minimal reference implementation demonstrating the core requirements of ERC-8041:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.25;

import {IERC8004AgentRegistry} from "./interfaces/IERC8004AgentRegistry.sol";
import {IERC8041Collection} from "./interfaces/IERC8041Collection.sol";

/**
 * @title ERC8041MinimalCollection
 * @notice Minimal reference implementation of ERC-8041
 * @dev Users supply pre-registered agent IDs to add to collection
 */
contract ERC8041MinimalCollection is IERC8041Collection {
    IERC8004AgentRegistry public immutable agentRegistry;
    
    uint256 public immutable maxSupply;
    uint256 public currentSupply;
    uint256 public immutable startBlock;
    bool public constant open = true;
    
    mapping(uint256 agentId => uint256 mintNumber) private _agentMintNumber;
    
    constructor(
        IERC8004AgentRegistry _agentRegistry,
        uint256 _maxSupply
    ) {
        agentRegistry = _agentRegistry;
        maxSupply = _maxSupply;
        startBlock = block.number;
        
        emit CollectionCreated(_maxSupply, block.number);
    }
    
    /**
     * @notice Add an existing agent to the collection
     * @param agentId The ID of an agent already registered in ERC-8004
     */
    function mint(uint256 agentId) external {
        require(currentSupply < maxSupply, "Supply exceeded");
        require(agentRegistry.ownerOf(agentId) == msg.sender, "Not agent owner");
        require(_agentMintNumber[agentId] == 0, "Already in collection");
        
        currentSupply++;
        uint256 mintNumber = currentSupply;
        _agentMintNumber[agentId] = mintNumber;
        
        // Store collection metadata in the agent's onchain metadata
        bytes memory mintNumberBytes = abi.encode(mintNumber);
        uint8 mintNumberLength = uint8(mintNumberBytes.length);
        bytes memory collectionMetadata = abi.encodePacked(
            address(this),      // 20 bytes: collection contract address
            mintNumberLength,   // 1 byte: length of mint number bytes
            mintNumberBytes     // variable: the mint number (compact encoding)
        );
        
        IERC8004AgentRegistry(address(agentRegistry)).setMetadata(
            agentId,
            "agent-collection",
            collectionMetadata
        );
        
        emit AgentMinted(agentId, mintNumber, msg.sender);
    }
    
    function getAgentMintNumber(uint256 agentId) external view returns (uint256) {
        return _agentMintNumber[agentId];
    }
    
    function getCollectionDetails() external view returns (
        uint256 _maxSupply,
        uint256 _currentSupply,
        uint256 _startBlock,
        bool _open
    ) {
        return (maxSupply, currentSupply, startBlock, open);
    }
}
```

This implementation demonstrates:

- **Single collection per contract**: Simplest deployment model
- **No access control**: Anyone can add their agents to the collection
- **Always open**: Collection is permanently open once deployed
- **Bring-your-own-agent model**: Users register agents separately, then add them to the collection
- **Full mint number tracking**: Each agent receives a sequential position number
- **Automatic start block**: Collection starts at deployment block

## Security Considerations

The owner of an ERC-8004 agent can modify or remove the "agent-collection" metadata stored on their agent at any time. Client applications MUST NOT rely solely on this metadata to verify collection membership. Instead, clients SHOULD:

1. Query the collection contract directly using `getAgentMintNumber(agentId)` to verify membership
2. Use the metadata as a convenience lookup to discover which collection to query, but always verify with the collection contract itself
3. Treat a mint number of `0` from the collection contract as definitive proof that an agent is not part of that collection

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
