---
eip: 7562
title: Account Abstraction Validation Scope Rules
description: A set of limitations on validation EVM code to protect Account Abstraction nodes from denial-of-service attacks through unpaid computation.
author: Yoav Weiss (@yoavw), Dror Tirosh (@drortirosh), Alex Forshtat (@forshtat), Shahaf Nacson (@shahafn)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7562-account-abstraction-validation-scope-rules/16683
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-09-01
---

## Abstract

This document describes the rules Account Abstraction protocols should follow, during the validation phase of Account Abstraction transactions,
such as [ERC-4337](./eip-4337) `UserOperation` or RIP-7560 (Native Account Abstraction), which are enforced off-chain by a
block builder or a standalone bundler, and the rationale behind each one of them.

## Motivation

With Account-Abstraction, instead of hard-coded logic for processing a transaction (validation, gas-payment, and execution), this logic is executed by EVM code.
The benefits for the account are countless -
- abstracting the validation allows the contract to use different signature schemes, multisig configuration, custom recovery, and more.
- abstracting gas payments allows easy onboarding by 3rd party payments, paying with tokens, cross-chain gas payments
- abstracting execution allows batch transactions

All of the above are missing from the EOA account model.

However, there is one rule a transaction must follow to preserve the decentralized network: once submitted into the network (the mempool), the transaction is guaranteed to pay. This comes to prevent denial-of-service attacks on the network.

The EOA model implicitly follows the rule: a valid transaction can't become invalid without payment by the account: e.g. account balance can't be reduced (except with a higher paying transaction)

This rule makes the network sustainable and DoS-protected: the network can't be cheaply attacked by a mass of transactions. An attack (sending a mass of transactions) is expensive, and gets more expensive as the network clogs. Legitimate users pay more, and can delay operations to avoid the cost, but the attacker pays a huge (and increasing) amount to keep the network clogged.

To mimic the same incentive structure in any Account Abstraction system, we suggest the following transaction validation rules.
These validation rules only apply to the validation phase of Account Abstraction transactions, not their entire executed code path.

For the actual interfaces of those contract-based accounts see the definitions in ERC-4337 and RIP-7560.

This documentation uses the terminology "UserOperation" for a transaction created by a smart contract account, and closely follows [ERC-4337](./eip-4337) terminology.
However, the rules apply to any Account Abstraction framework that uses EVM code to perform transaction validation and makes a distinction between validation (whether the operation is eligible for inclusion on the protocol level) and execution (on-chain execution and gas payment) in a public mempool.

## Specification

### Validation Rules Types
We define two types of validation rules: **network-wide rules** and **local rules**.

A violation of any validation rule by a UserOperation results in the UserOperation being dropped from the mempool and excluded from a bundle.

**Network-wide rule** is a rule, that its violation by a UserOperation validation should result in a reputation damage for the peer bundler that sent this UserOperation in the p2p mempool.
A peer bundler with a critically low reputation will eventually be marked as a malicious **spammer** peer.

**Local rule** is a rule that is enforced in the context of each bundler's local state, which may be different for each bundler and different bundlers may not always be in agreement on these rules' violations.
Thus, The bundler that sent the violating UserOperation should not suffer a p2p reputation damage by its peers.

### Constants

| Title                                | Value                       | Comment                                                                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `MIN_UNSTAKE_DELAY`                  | 86400                       | 1 day, which provides a sufficient withdrawal delay to prevent most sybil attacks                                       |
| `MIN_STAKE_VALUE`                    | Adjustable per chain value  | Equivalent to ~$1000 in native tokens, which provides a sufficient capital requirement to prevent most sybil attacks    |
| `SAME_SENDER_MEMPOOL_COUNT`          | 4                           | Maximum number of allowed userops in the mempool from a single sender.                                                  |
| `SAME_UNSTAKED_ENTITY_MEMPOOL_COUNT` | 10                          | Maximum number allowed in the mempool of UserOperations referencing the same unstaked entity                            |
| `THROTTLED_ENTITY_MEMPOOL_COUNT`     | 4                           | Number of `UserOperations` with a throttled entity that can stay in the mempool                                         |
| `THROTTLED_ENTITY_LIVE_BLOCKS`       | 10                          | Number of blocks a `UserOperations` with a throttled entity can stay in mempool                                         |
| `THROTTLED_ENTITY_BUNDLE_COUNT`      | 4                           | Number of `UserOperations` with a throttled entity that can be added in a single bundle                                 |
| `MIN_INCLUSION_RATE_DENOMINATOR`     | 100 (client) \ 10 (bundler) | A denominator of a formula for entity reputation calculation                                                            |
| `THROTTLING_SLACK`                   | 10                          | Part of a reputation formula that allows entities to legitimately reject some transactions without being throttled      |
| `BAN_SLACK`                          | 50                          | Part of a reputation formula that allows throttled entities to reject some transactions without being throttled         |
| `BAN_OPS_SEEN_PENALTY`               | 10000                       | A value to put into the opsSeen counter of entity to declare as banned                                                  |
| `MAX_OPS_ALLOWED_UNSTAKED_ENTITY`    | 10000                       |                                                                                                                         |
| `PRE_VERIFICATION_OVERHEAD_GAS`      | 50000                       | Gas used by the `EntryPoint` per `UserOp` that cannot be tracked on-chain                                               |
| `MAX_VERIFICATION_GAS`               | 500000                      | Maximum gas verification functions may use                                                                              |
| `MAX_USEROP_SIZE`                    | 8192                        | Maximum size of a single packed and ABI-encoded `UserOperation` in bytes                                                |
| `MAX_CONTEXT_SIZE`                   | 2048                        | Maximum size of a `context` byte array returned by a paymaster in a single `UserOperation` in bytes                     |
| `MAX_BUNDLE_SIZE`                    | 262144                      | Maximum size of an ABI-encoded bundle call to the `handleOps` function in bytes                                         |
| `MAX_BUNDLE_CONTEXT_SIZE`            | 65536                       | Maximum total size of all `context` byte arrays returned by all paymasters in all `UserOperations` in a bundle in bytes |
| `VALIDATION_GAS_SLACK`               | 4000                        | An amount of gas that must be added to the estimations of `verificationGasLimit` and `paymasterVerificationGasLimit`    |

### Validation Rules

### **Definitions**:
1. **Validation Phase**: there are up to three frames during the validation phase onchain
    1. `sender` deployment frame (once per account)
    2. `sender` validation (required)
    3. `paymaster` validation frame (optional)

2. **Execution Phase**: there are up to two frames during the execution phase onchain
   1. `sender` execution frame (required)
   2. `paymaster` post-transaction frame (optional)

   The validation rules only apply during the validation phase. Once a UserOperation is validated, it is guaranteed to pay. There are no restrictions on execution, neither account (callData) nor paymaster (postOp)

2. **Entity**: a contract that is explicitly specified by the `UserOperation`.
   Includes the `factory`, `paymaster`, `aggregator`, and staked `account`, as discussed below. \
   Each "validation frame" is attributed to a single entity. \
   Entity contracts must have non-empty code on-chain.
3. **Canonical Mempool**: The rules defined in this document apply to the main mempool shared by all bundlers on the network.
4. **Staked Entity:** an entity that has a locked stake of at least `MIN_STAKE_VALUE`
   and an unstake delay of at least `MIN_UNSTAKE_DELAY`.
5. **Associated storage:** a storage slot of any smart contract is considered to be "associated" with address `A` if:
    1. The slot value is `A`
    2. The slot value was calculated as `keccak(A||x)+n`, where `x` is a `bytes32` value, and `n` is a value in the range 0..128
6. **Using an address**: accessing the code of a given address in any way.
   This can be done by executing `*CALL` or `EXTCODE*` opcodes for a given address.
7. **Spammer** - a P2P peer bundler that attempts a DoS attack on the mempool by sending other peers with a large number of invalid UserOperations.
   Bundlers MUST detect and disconnect from such peers, as described in the [Mempool Validation Rules](#mempool-validation-rules) section.

### Reputation Definitions
1. **opsSeen**: a per-entity counter of how many times a unique valid `UserOperation` referencing this entity
   was received by this bundler.
   This includes `UserOperation` received via incoming RPC calls or through a P2P mempool protocol.

2. **opsIncluded**: a per-entity counter of how many times a unique valid `UserOperation` referencing this entity
   appeared in an actual included `UserOperation`. \
   Calculation of this value is based on UserOperationEvents and is only counted for `UserOperations` that were
   previously counted as `opsSeen` by this bundler.
3. **Refresh rate**: Both of the above values are updated every hour as `value = value * 23 // 24` \
   Effectively, the value is reduced to 1% after 4 days.
4. **inclusionRate**: Ratio of `opsIncluded`  to `opsSeen`


### Reputation Calculation

We define a value `max_seen = opsSeen // MIN_INCLUSION_RATE_DENOMINATOR`.

The reputation state of each entity is determined as follows:

1. **BANNED**: `max_seen > opsIncluded + BAN_SLACK`
2. **THROTTLED**: `max_seen > opsIncluded + THROTTLING_SLACK`
3. **OK**: otherwise

Note that new entities start with an `OK` reputation.

Because of the reputation `refresh rate`, note that a malicious paymaster can at most cause the network (only the p2p network, not the blockchain) to process `BAN_SLACK * MIN_INCLUSION_RATE_DENOMINATOR / 24` non-paying ops per hour.

### Running the Validation Rules

1. A block builder or a bundler should perform a full validation once before accepting a `UserOperation` into its mempool, and again before including it in a bundle/block.
2. The bundler should trace the validation phase of the UserOperation and apply all the rules defined in this document.
3. A bundler should also perform a full validation of the entire bundle before submission.
4. The validation rules prevent an unstaked entity from altering its behavior between simulation and execution of the UserOperation.
   However, a malicious staked entity can detect that it is running in a bundle validation and cause a revert. Thus, a third tracing simulation of the entire bundle should be performed before submission.
5. The failed `UserOperation` should be dropped from the bundle.
6. The bundler should update the reputation of the staked entity that violated the rules, and consider it `THROTTLED`/`BANNED` as described below. 

### Mempool Validation Rules

1. A `UserOperation` is broadcast over the P2P protocol with the following information:
    1. The `UserOperation` itself
    2. The blockhash this `UserOperation` was originally verified against.
2. Once a `UserOperation` is received from another bundler it should be verified locally by a receiving bundler.
3. A received `UserOperation` may fail any of the reasonable static checks, such as:
   invalid format, values below minimum, submitted with a blockhash that isn't recent, etc.
   In this case, the bundler should drop this particular `UserOperation` but keep the connection.
4. The bundler should check the `UserOperation` against the nonces of last-included bundles and silently drop `UserOperations` with `nonce` that was recently included.
   This invalidation is likely attributable to a network race condition and should not cause a reputation change.
5. If a received `UserOperation` fails against the current block:
    1. Retry the validation against the block the `UserOperation` was originally verified against.
    2. If it succeeds, silently drop the `UserOperation` and keep the connection.
    3. If it fails, mark the sender as a "spammer" (disconnect from that peer and block it permanently).

### Opcode Rules
* Block access from opcodes that access information outside of storage and code (aka "environment").
    * **[OP-011]** Blocked opcodes:
        * `ORIGIN` (`0x32`)
        * `GASPRICE` (`0x3A`)
        * `BLOCKHASH` (`0x40`)
        * `COINBASE` (`0x41`)
        * `TIMESTAMP` (`0x42`)
        * `NUMBER` (`0x43`)
        * `PREVRANDAO`/`DIFFICULTY` (`0x44`)
        * `GASLIMIT` (`0x45`)
        * `BASEFEE` (`0x48`)
        * `BLOBHASH` (`0x49`)
        * `BLOBBASEFEE` (`0x4A`)
        * `CREATE` (`0xF0`) (except in the "Contract Creation" and "Staked factory creation" sections, below)
        * `INVALID` (`0xFE`)
        * `SELFDESTRUCT` (`0xFF`)
    * **[OP-012]** `GAS` (`0x5A`) opcode is allowed, but only if followed immediately by `*CALL` instructions, else it is blocked.\
      This is a common way to pass all remaining gas to an external call, and it means that the actual value is
      consumed from the stack immediately and cannot be accessed by any other opcode.
    * **[OP-13]** any "unassigned" opcode.
* **[OP-020]** Revert on "out of gas" is forbidden as it can "leak" the gas limit or the current call stack depth.
* Contract creation:
    * **[OP-031]** `CREATE2` is allowed exactly once in the deployment frame and must deploy code for the "sender" address.
      (Either by the factory itself, or by a utility contract it calls)
    * **[OP-032]** If there is a `factory` (even unstaked), the `sender` contract is allowed to use `CREATE` opcode
      (That is, only the sender contract itself, not through utility contract)
* Access to an address without a deployed code is forbidden:
    * **[OP-041]** For `EXTCODE*` and `*CALL` opcodes.
    * **[OP-042]** Exception: access to the "sender" address is allowed.
      This is only possible in `factory` code during the deployment frame.
* Allowed access to the `EntryPoint` address:
    * **[OP-051]** May call `EXTCODESIZE ISZERO`\
      This pattern is used to check destination has a code before the `depositTo` function is called.
    * **[OP-052]** May call `depositTo(sender)` with any value from either the `sender` or `factory`.
    * **[OP-053]** May call the fallback function from the `sender` with any value.
    * **[OP-054]** Any other access to the `EntryPoint` (either of the `*CALL` or `EXT*` opcodes) is forbidden.
    * **[OP-055]** May call `incrementNonce())` from the `sender`
* `*CALL` opcodes:
    * **[OP-061]** `CALL` with `value` is forbidden. The only exception is a call to the `EntryPoint` described above.
    * **[OP-062]** Precompiles:
        * Only allow known accepted precompiles on the network, that do not access anything in the blockchain state or environment.
        * The core precompiles 0x1 .. 0x11
        * The RIP-7212 secp256r1 precompile, on networks that accepted it.
* **[OP-070]** Transient Storage slots defined in [EIP-1153](./eip-1153) and accessed using `TLOAD` (`0x5c`) and `TSTORE` (`0x5d`) opcodes
  are treated exactly like persistent storage (SLOAD/SSTORE).
* **[OP-080]** `BALANCE` (`0x31`) and `SELFBALANCE` (`0x47`) are allowed only from a staked entity, else they are blocked.


### Code Rules

* **[COD-010]** Between the first and the second validations, the `EXTCODEHASH` value of any visited address,
  entity, or referenced library, may not be changed.\
  If the code is modified, the UserOperation is considered invalid.

### Storage Rules

The storage access with `SLOAD` and `SSTORE` (and `TLOAD`, `TSTORE`) instructions within each phase is limited as follows:

* **[STO-010]** Access to the "account" storage is always allowed.
* Access to associated storage of the account in an external (non-entity) contract is allowed if either:
    * **[STO-021]**  The account already exists.
    * **[STO-022]**  There is an `initCode` and the `factory` contract is staked.
* If the entity (`paymaster`, `factory`) is staked, then it is also allowed:
    * **[STO-031]** Access the entity's own storage.
    * **[STO-032]** Read/Write Access to storage slots that are associated with the entity, in any non-entity contract.
    * **[STO-033]** Read-only access to any storage in non-entity contract.

### Local Rules

Local storage rules protect the bundler against denial of service at the time of bundling. They do not affect mempool propagation and cannot cause a bundler to be marked as a "spammer".
* **[STO-040]** `UserOperation` may not use an entity address (`factory`/`paymaster`/`aggregator`) that is used as an "account" in another `UserOperation` in the mempool. \
  This means that `Paymaster`, `Factory` or `Aggregator` contracts cannot practically be an "account" contract as well.
* **[STO-041]** `UserOperation` may not use associated storage (of either its account or from staked entity) in a contract that is a "sender" of another UserOperation in the mempool.

### General Reputation Rules

The following reputation rules apply for all staked entities, and for unstaked paymasters. All rules apply to all of these entities unless specified otherwise.

* **[GREP-010]** A `BANNED` address is not allowed into the mempool.\
  Also, all existing `UserOperations` referencing this address are removed from the mempool.
* **[GREP-020]** A `THROTTLED` address is limited to:
    * `THROTTLED_ENTITY_MEMPOOL_COUNT` entries in the mempool.
    * `THROTTLED_ENTITY_BUNDLE_COUNT` `UserOperations` in a bundle.
    * Can remain in the mempool only for `THROTTLED_ENTITY_LIVE_BLOCKS`.
* **[GREP-040]** If an entity fails the bundle creation after passing second validation, its `opsSeen` set to `BAN_OPS_SEEN_PENALTY`, and `opsIncluded` to zero, causing it to be `BANNED`.
* **[GREP-050]** When a UserOperation is replaced (by submitting a new UserOperation, with higher gas fees), and an entity (e.g. a paymaster) is replaced, then the removed entity has its reputation (opsSeen counter) decremented by 1.

### Staked Entities Reputation Rules

* **[SREP-010]** The "canonical mempool" defines a staked entity if it has `MIN_STAKE_VALUE` and unstake delay of `MIN_UNSTAKE_DELAY`
* **[SREP-020]** MOVED TO GREP-010
* **[SREP-030]** MOVED TO GREP-020
* **[SREP-040]** An `OK` staked entity is unlimited by the reputation rule.
    * Allowed in unlimited numbers in the mempool.
    * Allowed in unlimited numbers in a bundle.
* **[SREP-050]** MOVED TO GREP-040

### Entity-specific Rules

* **[EREP-010]** For each `paymaster`, the bundler must track the total gas `UserOperations` using this `paymaster` may consume.
    * Bundler should not accept a new `UserOperation` with a paymaster to the mempool if the maximum total gas cost of all userops in the mempool, including this new `UserOperation`, is above the deposit of that `paymaster` at the current gas price.
* **[EREP-011]** REMOVED
* **[EREP-015]** A `paymaster` should not have its opsSeen incremented in case of a failure of factory or account
  * When running 2nd validation (before inclusion in a bundle), if a UserOperation fails because of factory or account error (either a FailOp revert or validation rule), then the paymaster's opsSeen valid is decremented by 1.
* **[EREP-016]** An `aggregator` should not have its opsSeen incremented in case of a failure of a factory, an account or a paymaster
  * When running 2nd validation (before inclusion in a bundle), if a UserOperation fails because of a factory, an account or a paymaster error (either a FailOp revert or validation rule), then the aggregator's opsSeen valid is decremented by 1.
* **[EREP-020]** If a staked factory is used, its reputation is updated for the account violating any of the validation rules accordingly. \
  That is, if the `validateUserOp()` is rejected for any reason in a `UserOperation` that has an `initCode`, it is treated as if the factory caused this failure, and thus this affects its reputation.
* **[EREP-030]** If a staked account is used, its reputation is updated for failures in other entities (`paymaster`, `aggregator`) even if they are staked.
* **[EREP-040]** An `aggregator` must be staked, regardless of storage usage.
* **[EREP-050]** An unstaked `paymaster` may not return a `context`.
* **[EREP-055]** A context size may not change between validation and bundle creation. \
    If a bundle creation reverts, and a paymaster's context size was modified, that paymaster \
    is BANNED, regardless if the UserOperation that reverted used that paymaster or not.
* Staked factory creation rules:
  * **[EREP-060]** If the factory is staked, either the factory itself or the sender may use the CREATE2 and CREATE opcode
    (the sender is allowed to use the CREATE with unstaked factory, with OP-032)
  * **[EREP-061]** A staked factory may also use a utility contract that calls the `CREATE`
* **[EREP-070]** During bundle creation, if a staked entity reduce its validation gas by more than 10% 
    compared to the second validation, that entity is throttled, even if the UserOperation itself didn't revert.
    (as it might affect the gas calculation based on [EIP-7623](./eip-7623.md) )

### Unstaked Entities Reputation Rules

* Definitions:
    * **`opsSeen`, `opsIncluded`, and reputation calculation** are defined above.
    * `UnstakedReputation` of an entity determines the maximum number of entries using this entity allowed in the mempool.
    * `opsAllowed` is a reputation-based calculation for an unstaked entity, representing how many `UserOperations` it is allowed to have in the mempool.
    * Rules:
        * **[UREP-010]** An unstaked sender (that is not throttled/banned) is only allowed to have `SAME_SENDER_MEMPOOL_COUNT` `UserOperation`s  in the mempool.
        * **[UREP-020]** For an unstaked paymaster only that is not throttled/banned: \
          `opsAllowed = SAME_UNSTAKED_ENTITY_MEMPOOL_COUNT + inclusionRate * min(opsIncluded, MAX_OPS_ALLOWED_UNSTAKED_ENTITY)`.
        * This is a default of `SAME_UNSTAKED_ENTITY_MEMPOOL_COUNT` for new entity
        * **[UREP-030]** REMOVED

### Alt-mempools Rules

Alternate mempool is an agreed-upon rule that the bundlers may opt into, in addition to the canonical mempool
The alt-mempool "topic" is a unique identifier. By convention, this is the IPFS hash of the document describing (in clear test and YAML file) the specifics of this alt mempool.

* **[ALT-010]** The bundler listens to the alt-mempool "topic" over the P2P protocol
* **[ALT-020]** The alt mempool rules MUST be checked only when a canonical rule is violated
    * That is, if validation follows the canonical rules above, it is not considered part of an alt-mempool.
*  **[ALT-021]** Such a `UserOperation` (that violates the canonical rules) is checked against all the "alternate mempools", and is considered part of all those alt-mempools
* **[ALT-030]** Bundlers SHOULD forward `UserOperations` to other bundlers only once, regardless of how many (shared) alt-mempools they have. \
  The receiving bundler validates the `UserOperations`, and based on the above rules (and subscribed alt-mempools) decides which alt-mempools to propagate it to.
* **[ALT-040]** opsInclude and opsSeen of entities are kept per alt-mempool. That is, an entity can be considered throttled (or banned) in one mempool, while still active on another.

### Alt-mempool Reputation

Alt-mempools are served by the same bundlers participating in the canonical mempool, but change the rules and may introduce denial-of-service attack vectors. To prevent them from taking the canonical mempool or other alt mempools down with them, a reputation is managed for each. An alt mempool that causes too many invalidations gets throttled. This limits the scope of the attack and lets the bundler continue doing its work for other mempools.

* **[AREP-010]** each alt-mempool has "opsSeen" and "opsIncluded", much like entities. The opsSeen is incremented after `UserOperation` initial validation, where it is considered part of this mempool.
  The "opsIncluded" is incremented after this UserOperation is included on-chain (either by this bundler, or another)
* **[AREP-020]** the alt-mempool becomes `THROTTLED`/`BANNED` based on the [Reputation Calculation](#reputation-calculation)
* **[AREP-030]** REMOVED

### Authorizations

* **[AUTH-010]** A UserOperation may only contain a single [EIP-7702](./eip-7702) authorization tuple.
* **[AUTH-020]** An account with EIP-7702 delegation can only be used as the Sender of the UserOperation.
  Using authorized account as any other kind of UserOperation entity is not allowed.
* **[AUTH-030]** An account with EIP-7702 delegation can only be **accessed** (using `*CALL` or `EXTCODE*` opcodes) if it is the Sender of the current UserOperation.
* **[AUTH-040]** If there are multiple UserOperations by the same sender with an authorization tuple in the mempool, they all MUST have the same delegate address.

### Limitations

The validation rules attempt to guarantee a degree of isolation between individual `UserOperations`' validations.
In order to prevent hitting the memory expansion limitations (imposed by ethereum EVM) when creating a bundle, `UserOperation`s must meet the following limitations:

* **[LIM-010]** Maximum size of a single packed and ABI-encoded `UserOperation` in bytes MUST not exceed `MAX_USEROP_SIZE`
* **[LIM-020]** Maximum size of a `context` byte array returned by a paymaster in a single `UserOperation` in bytes MUST not exceed `MAX_CONTEXT_SIZE`
* **[LIM-030]** The `verificationGasLimit` and `paymasterVerificationGasLimit` parameters MUST exceed the actual usage during validation of the `UserOperation` by `VALIDATION_GAS_SLACK`
* **[LIM-040]** Maximum size of an ABI-encoded bundle call to the `handleOps` function in bytes SHOULD not exceed `MAX_BUNDLE_SIZE`
* **[LIM-050]** Maximum total size of all `context` byte arrays returned by all paymasters in all `UserOperations` in a bundle in bytes SHOULD not exceed `MAX_BUNDLE_CONTEXT_SIZE`

## Rationale

All transactions initiated by EOAs have an implicit validation phase where balance, nonce, and signature are
checked to be valid for the current state of the Ethereum blockchain.
Once the transaction is checked to be valid by a node, only another transaction by the same EOA can modify the Ethereum
state in a way that makes the first transaction invalid.

With Account Abstraction, however, the validation can also include an arbitrary EVM code and rely on storage as well,
which means that unrelated `UserOperations` or transactions may invalidate each other.

If not addressed, this would make the job of maintaining a mempool of valid `UserOperations` and producing valid
bundles computationally infeasible and susceptible to DoS attacks.

This document describes a set of validation rules that if applied by a bundler before accepting a `UserOperation`
into the mempool can prevent such attacks.

### The high-level goal

The purpose of this specification is to define a consensus between nodes (bundlers or block-builders) when processing incoming UserOperations from an external source.
This external source for UserOperations is either an end-user node (via RPC [ERC-7769](./eip-7769)) or another node in the p2p network.

The protocol tries to detect "spam" - which are large bursts of UserOperations that cannot be included on-chain (and thus can't pay).
The network is protected by throttling down requests from such spammer nodes.

All nodes in the network must have the same definition of "spam": otherwise, if some nodes accept some type of UserOperations and propagate them while others consider them spam, those "forgiving" nodes will be considered "spammers" by the rest of the nodes, and the network effectively gets split.

### The processing flow of a UserOperation

- First, a UserOperation is received - either via RPC (submitted on behalf of a single application) or via the p2p protocol, from another node in the mempool.
- The node performs validation on the UserOperation, and then adds it to its in-memory mempool, and submits it to its peers.
- Lastly, when building a block, a node collects UserOperations from the mempool, performs a 2nd validation to make sure they are all still valid as a bundle and submits them into the next block.

### The need for 2nd validation before submitting a block

A normal Ethereum transaction in the mempool can be invalidated if another transaction was received with the same nonce. That other transaction had to increase the gas price in order to replace the first one, so it satisfied the rule of "must pay to get included into the mempool".
With contract-based accounts, since the UserOperation validity may depend on mutable state, other transactions may invalidate a previously valid UserOperation, so we must check it before inclusion.

### Rationale of limiting opcodes:

- the validation is performed off-chain, before creating a block. Some opcodes access information that is known only when creating the block.
- using those opcodes while validating a transaction can easily create a validation rule that will succeed off-chain, but always revert on-chain, and thus cause a DoS attack.
- a simple example is `require block.number==12345`. It can be valid when validating the UserOperation and adding it to the mempool
  but will be invalid when attempting to include it on-chain at a later block.

### Rationale for limiting storage access

- We need UserOperation validations not to overlap so that a single storage change can't easily invalidate a large number of UserOperations in the mempool. By limiting UserOperations to access storage associated with the account itself, we know that we can for sure include a single UserOperation for each account in a bundle
- (A bundler MAY include multiple UserOperations of the same account in a bundle, but MUST first validate them together)

### Rationale of requiring a stake

We want to be able to allow globally-used contracts (paymasters, factories, aggregators) to use storage not associated with the account, but still prevent them from
spamming the mempool.
If a contract causes too many UserOperations to fail in their second validation after succeeding in their first, we can throttle its use in the mempool.
By requiring such a contract to have a stake, we prevent a "Sybil attack", by making it expensive to create a large number of such paymasters to continue the spam attack.

By following the validation rules, we can detect contracts that cause spam UserOperations, and throttle them.
The stake comes to prevent the fast re-creation of malicious entities.
The stake is never slashed (since it is only used for off-chain detection) but is locked for a period of time, which makes such an attack much more expensive.


### Definition of the `mass invalidation attack`

A possible set of actions is considered to be a `mass invalidation attack` on the network if a large number of
`UserOperations` that did pass the initial validation and were accepted by nodes and propagated further into the
mempool to other bundlers in the network becomes invalid and not eligible for inclusion in a block.

There are 3 ways to perform such an attack:

1. Submit `UserOperation`s that pass the initial validation, but later fail the re-validation
   that is performed during the bundle creation.
2. Submit `UserOperation`s that are valid in isolation during validation, but when bundled
   together become invalid.
3. Submit valid `UserOperation`s but "front-run" them by executing a state change on the
   network that causes them to become invalid. The "front-run" in question must be economically viable.

To prevent such attacks, we attempt to "sandbox" the validation code.
We isolate the validation code from other `UserOperations`, from external changes to the storage, and
from information about the environment such as a current block timestamp.

### What is not considered a `mass invalidation attack`

A `UserOperation` that fails the initial validation by a receiving node without entering its mempool is not
considered an attack. The node is expected to apply web2 security measures and throttle requests based on API key,
source IP address, etc.
RPC nodes already do that to prevent being spammed with invalid transactions which also have a validation cost.
P2P nodes already have (and should apply) a scoring mechanism to determine spammer nodes.

Also, if the invalidation of `N` UserOperations from the mempool costs `N*X` with a sufficiently large `X`, it is not considered an economically viable attack.

- The minimum change to cause an invalidation is a storage change (5k gas)
- Assuming a Node can sustain processing 2000 invalid UserOps per block, the cost of a DoS attack is 10M gas per block.
- The above value is high, but we take further measures to make such an attack more expensive.

## Security Considerations

This document describes the security considerations bundlers must take to protect themselves (and the entire mempool network)
from denial-of-service attacks.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

