---
eip: 7687
title: AUTHCALL ERC4626 Deposit/Withdraw Extension
description: Allow Deposits and Withdrawals from Tokenized Vaults using EIP-3074 wallet signing.
author: Señor Doggo (@fubuloubu)
discussions-to: TBD
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-04-14
requires: 3074, 4626
---

## Abstract

It is useful to allow atomically depositing into an [ERC-4626](./erc-4626.md) Tokenized Vault on behalf of an account in a single transaction.
This standard is an extension on the ERC-4626 standard that allows depositing without prior ERC-20 `approve` call, and additionally supports timeliness and share price checks to improve protections for this action.

## Motivation

Tokenized Vaults have been a successful DeFi standard that help tokenize assets into various smart contract-managed automations, represented by shares exchangable at a contract-determined rate.
However, the standard makes it clear that additional functionality should be added to allow EOA or delegated deposits, in order to ensure that the user actions are handled in a manner that protects their assets from unintended share devaluation.
There have been several attempts at extensiions that add this functionality, but with the rise of EIP-3074 intent-based delegated actions, it makes it possible to define a much simpler standard that enables this.

A standard for delegated actions on Tokenized Vaults will help EOAs and users of batch transaction systems to ensure that the intention behind their requests are followed.

## Specification

[EIP-3074](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3074) is a prerequisite of this ERC, and must be available as an opcode to properly process these transactions.
Additionally, special care should be taken that the security properties of EIP-3074 are respected, this ERC only defines a standard interface and implementation requirements, and should not itself be considered sufficient for the determination of safety of any particular implementation.

The encoding of the pre-image for `commit` is encoded by normal ABI v2 form, with no special packing occuring in how they are encoded (to reduce implementation complexity).
It may be an optimization within the implementing contract that `msg.data` is directly sliced to obtain the pre-image for `commit`, without additional processing required to concatenate the parameters together.

### Definitions:

All definitions from ERC-4626 and EIP-3074 apply. Additionally, the following definitions are useful:

- deadline: The timestamp by which a user deposit or withdraw request MUST be honored
- `||`: byte concatenation operation
- `b"<data>"`: bytestring literal

### Methods

#### depositWithAuth

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing exactly `assets` of underlying tokens using `depositor`'s EIP-3074 AUTH signature, with constraints that ensure the request is processed within the parameters that `depositor` is comfortable with.

MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be deposited (due to deposit limit being reached, slippage, etc).

MUST check that the shares credited for the deposit is at least `minShares`.

MUST check that the current timestamp is less than or equal to the user setting of `deadline`.

MUST credit the shares to `receiver`

MUST emit the `Deposit` event.

MUST return the _exact_ amount of shares issued to `receiver`.

MUST compute `commit` (per EIP-3074 parlance) as `keccak(b"ERC-7687" || b"depositWithAuth" || depositor || assets || minShares || receiver || deadline)`.

```yaml
- name: depositWithAuth
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
    - name: depositor
      type: address
    - name: assets
      type: uint256
    - name: minShares
      type: uint256
    - name: receiver
      type: address
    - name: deadline
      type: uint256
    - name: auth
      type: bytes

  outputs:
    - name: shares
      type: uint256
```

#### mintWithAuth

Mints exactly `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing `assets` of underlying tokens using `depositor`'s EIP-3074 AUTH signature, with constraints that ensure the request is processed within the parameters that `depositor` is comfortable with.

MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be deposited (due to deposit limit being reached, slippage, etc).

MUST check that the assets transferred for the deposit is at most `maxAssets`.

MUST check that the current timestamp is less than or equal to the user setting of `deadline`.

MUST credit the shares to `receiver`

MUST emit the `Deposit` event.

MUST return the _exact_ amount of shares issued to `receiver`.

MUST compute `commit` (per EIP-3074 parlance) as `keccak(b"ERC-7687" || b"mintWithAuth" || depositor || shares || maxAssets || receiver || deadline)`.

```yaml
- name: depositWithAuth
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
    - name: minter
      type: address
    - name: shares
      type: uint256
    - name: maxAssets
      type: uint256
    - name: receiver
      type: address
    - name: deadline
      type: uint256
    - name: auth
      type: bytes

  outputs:
    - name: assets
      type: uint256
```

#### withdrawWithAuth

Burns `shares` from `owner` and sends exactly `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver` using `owner`'s EIP-3074 AUTH signature, with constraints that ensure the request is processed within the parameters that `owner` is comfortable with.

MUST revert if all of `assets` cannot be withdrawn (due to withdrawal limit being reached, slippage, the owner not having enough shares, etc).

MUST check that the shares redeemed for the withdrawal is at most `maxShares`.

MUST check that the current timestamp is less than or equal to the user setting of `deadline`.

MUST transfer the assets to `receiver`

MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.

MUST return the _exact_ amount of shares redeemed from `owner`.

MUST compute `commit` (per EIP-3074 parlance) as `keccak(b"ERC-7687" || b"withdrawWithAuth" || depositor || assets || maxShares || receiver || deadline)`.

MAY support an additional flow in which the shares are transferred to the Vault contract before the `withdrawWithAuth` execution, and are accounted for during `withdrawWithAuth`.

```yaml
- name: withdrawWithAuth
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
    - name: owner
      type: address
    - name: assets
      type: uint256
    - name: maxShares
      type: uint256
    - name: receiver
      type: address
    - name: deadline
      type: uint256
    - name: auth
      type: bytes

  outputs:
    - name: shares
      type: uint256
```

#### redeemWithAuth

Burns exactly `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver` using `owner`'s EIP-3074 AUTH signature, with constraints that ensure the request is processed within the parameters that `owner` is comfortable with.

MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be withdrawn (due to withdrawal limit being reached, slippage, the owner not having enough shares, etc).

MUST check that the assets redeemed for the withdrawal is at least `minAssets`.

MUST check that the current timestamp is less than or equal to the user setting of `deadline`.

MUST transfer the assets to `receiver`

MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.

MUST return the _exact_ amount of assets transferred to `receiver`.

MUST compute `commit` (per EIP-3074 parlance) as `keccak(b"ERC-7687" || b"redeemWithAuth" || depositor || shares || minAssets || receiver || deadline)`.

MAY support an additional flow in which the shares are transferred to the Vault contract before the `redeemWithAuth` execution, and are accounted for during `redeemWithAuth`.

```yaml
- name: redeemWithAuth
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
    - name: owner
      type: address
    - name: shares
      type: uint256
    - name: minAssets
      type: uint256
    - name: receiver
      type: address
    - name: deadline
      type: uint256
    - name: auth
      type: bytes

  outputs:
    - name: assets
      type: uint256
```

### Events

`Deposit` and `Withdraw` should be emitted in their corresponding methods, aligning with ERC-4626.
The event definitions do not change.

## Backwards Compatibility

This extension is fully compatible with ERC-4626.
The compatibility with other extensions to ERC-20 or ERC-4626 has not been fully analyzed, and may additionally be preferred to leverage this extension to the exclusion of other similar extensions.

## Reference Implementation

TBD

## Security Considerations

All EIP-3074 `commit`s have been pre-pended with two additional string values to ensure replay protection within the context of this contract.
The number of this ERC has been added to ensure that it does not conflict any other ERCs which may be defined together in the implementation contract.
The method name of each method called has been additionally added to ensure replayability protection between other methods in this ERC, which have similar order and type to the list of parameters.

Note that all operations defined by this ERC are _NOT_ authenticated _except_ via the EIP-3074 mechanism.
The replay protection defined by this ERC and EIP-3074 is considered enough to prevent a user action from being initated by another party that violates that user's original intent when signing for that action.
In particular, the value of `deadline` MUST be chosen such that it is sufficiently short enough that the user is unlikely to want to be able to perform the same action again, but long enough for that action to succeed (at most, several minutes is suggested, but timing depends on on-chain fee conditions and/or downstream processes such as relayer batch times, etc.)

As a last resort, the EIP-3074 mechanism of performing a transaction to increase the value of that account's `nonce` to reassure the user that a replay is not possible, however this is not a substitute for the proper handling of constraints within the implementation contract.
(Note that for some transactions where the deposit is initiated by the same EOA that has signed for the deposit, there are less concerns due to the change of the user's `nonce` once the action has been processed as a transaction)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
