---
eip: 7572
title: Contract-level metadata via `contractURI()`
description: Specifying and updating contract-level metadata
author: Devin Finzer (@dfinzer), Alex Atallah (@alexanderatallah), Ryan Ghods (@ryanio), Tim Pechersky (@peersky)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-contract-level-metadata-via-contracturi/17157
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-12-06
---

## Abstract

This specification standardizes `contractURI()` to return contract-level metadata. This is useful for dapps and offchain indexers to show rich information about a contract, such as its name, description and image, without specifying it manually or individually for each dapp.

## Motivation

Dapps have included supported for `contractURI()` for years without an ERC to reference. This standard also introduces the event `ContractURIUpdated()` to signal when to update the metadata.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

The contract MUST implement the below interface:

```solidity
interface IERC7572 {
  function contractURI() external view returns (string memory);

  event ContractURIUpdated(string indexed newURIHash, string newURI);
}
```

The string returned from `contractURI()` MAY be an offchain resource or onchain JSON data string (`data:application/json;utf8,{}`).

The `ContractURIUpdated(string indexed newURIHash, string newURI)` event SHOULD be emitted on updates to the contract metadata for offchain indexers to query the contract.

If the underlying contract provides any methods that conflict with the `contractURI` schema such as `name()` or `symbol()`, the metadata returned by `contractURI()` is RECOMMENDED to take precedence. This enables contract creators to update their contract details with an event that notifies of the update.

## Rationale

- **Method Name**: The method name `contractURI()` was chosen based on its existing implementation in dapps. The event `ContractURIUpdated()` is specified to help offchain indexers to know when to refetch the metadata.
- **No Schema definition**: This standard generalises the way of querying and interchanging URIs between smart contracts. The off-chain component is left out of the scope and may be implemented as follow-up ERC.
- **Event with URI parameters**: Emitting both indexed and non-indexed parameters allows for off-chain indexers to query for a specific URI changes.   

## Backwards Compatibility

As a new ERC, no backwards compatibility issues are present.

## Reference Implementation

```solidity
contract MyCollectible is ERC721, IERCXXXX {
    event ContractURIUpdated(string indexed newURIHash, string newURI);
    string _contractURI = "ipfs://QmTNgv3jx2HHfBjQX9RnKtxj2xv2xQDtbVXoRi5rJ3a46e"
    // or e.g. "https://external-link-url.com/my-contract-metadata.json";

    function contractURI() external view returns (string memory) {
        return _contractURI;
        // or e.g. for onchain:
        string memory json = '{"name": "Creatures","description":"..."}';
        return string.concat("data:application/json;utf8,", json);
    }

    /// @dev Suggested setter, not explicitly specified as part of this ERC
    function setContractURI(string memory newURI) external onlyOwner {
        _contractURI = newURI;
        emit ContractURIUpdated(newURI,newURI);
    }
}
```
## Security Considerations

As this standard only specifices an interface, there is no explicit security considerations in place. 

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
