---
eip: 7754
title: Tamperproof Extension Wallets API (TWIST)
description: Provides a mechanism for dapps to use the extension wallets API in a tamperproof way
author: Erik Marks (@remarks), Guillaume Grosbois (@uni-guillaume)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7754-tamperproof-web-immutable-transaction-twit/20767
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-07-29
requires: 1193
---

## Abstract

Tamperproof Web Immutable Secure Transaction (TWIST) introduces a new RPC method to be implemented by wallets, `wallet_signedRequest`, that
enables dapps to interact with wallets in a tamperproof manner via "signed requests". The
dapp associates a public key with its DNS record and uses the corresponding private key to
sign payloads sent to the wallet via `wallet_signedRequest`. Wallets can then use the
public key in the DNS record to validate the integrity of the payload.

## Motivation

This standard aims to enhance the end user's experience by granting them confidence that requests from their dapps have not been tampered with.
In essence, this is similar to how HTTPS is used in the web.

Currently, the communication channel between dapps and wallets is vulnerable to man in the middle attacks.
Specifically, attackers can intercept RPC requests by injecting JavaScript code in the page,
via e.g. an XSS vulnerability or due to a malicious extension.
Once an RPC request is intercepted, it can be modified in a number of pernicious ways, including:

- Editing the calldata in order to siphon funds or otherwise change the transaction outcome
- Modifying the parameters of an [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) request
- Obtaining a replayable signature from the wallet

Even if the user realizes that requests from the dapp may be tampered with, they have little to no recourse to mitigate the problem.
Overall, the lack of a chain of trust between the dapp and the wallet hurts the ecosystem as a whole:

- Users cannot simply trust otherwise honest dapps, and are at risk of losing funds
- Dapp maintainers are at risk of hurting their reputations if an attacker finds a viable MITM attack

For these reasons, we recommend that wallets implement the `wallet_signedRequest` RPC method.
This method provides dapp developers with a way to explicitly ask the wallet to verify the
integrity of a payload. This is a significant improvement over the status quo, which forces
dapps to rely on implicit approaches such as argument bit packing.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Overview

We propose to use the dapp's domain certificate of a root of trust to establish a trust chain as follow:

1. The user's browser verifies the domain certificate and displays appropriate warnings if overtaken
2. The DNS record of the dapp hosts a TXT field pointing to a URL where a JSON manifest is hosted
   - This file SHOULD be at a well known address such as `example[.]com/.well-known/twist.json`
3. The config file contains an array of objects of the form `{ id, alg, publicKey }`
4. For signed requests, the dapp first securely signs the payload with a private key, for example by submitting a request to its backend
5. The original payload, signature, and public key id are sent to the wallet via the `wallet_signedRequest` RPC method
6. The wallet verifies the signature before processing the request normally

### Wallet integration

#### Key discovery

Attested public keys are necessary for the chain of trust to be established.
Since this is traditionally done via DNS certificates, we propose the addition of a DNS record containing the public keys.
This is similar to RFC 6376's DKIM, but the use of a manifest file provides more flexibility for future improvements, as well as support for multiple algorithm and key pairs.

Similarly to standard RFC 7519's JWT practices, the wallet could eagerly cache dapp keys.
However, in the absence of a revocation mechanism, a compromised key could still be used until caches have expired.
To mitigate this, wallets SHOULD NOT cache dapp public keys for more than 2 hours.
This practice establishes a relatively short vulnerability window, and manageable overhead for both wallet and dapp maintainers.

Example DNS record for `my-crypto-dapp.invalid`:

```txt
...
TXT: TWIST=/.well-known/twist.json
```

Example TWIST manifest at `my-crypto-dapp[.]invalid/.well-known/twist.json`:

```json
{
  "publicKeys": [
    { "id": "1", "alg": "ES256", "publicKey": "0xaf34..." },
    { "id": "2", "alg": "PS256", "publicKey": "0x98ab..." }
  ]
}
```

Implementers MUST support at least the following "alg" param values, from RFC 7518 section 3.1: ES256 and EdDSA. Implementers SHOULD support PS256, RS256, ES384, ES512, PS384, PS512, RS384, and RS512.

Implementers SHOULD use `SubtleCrypto`, since it is available in modern browsers.

Public keys MUST be encoded using the X.509 SubjectPublicKeyInfo (SPKI) structure in DER format and represented as hex-encoded strings.

#### Manifest schema

We propose a simple and extensible schema:

```json
{
  "title": "TWIST manifest",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "publicKeys": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "id": { "type": "string" },
          "alg": { "type": "string" },
          "publicKey": { "type": "string" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### RPC method

The parameters of `wallet_signedRequest` are specified by this TypeScript interface:

```typescript
type RequestPayload<Params> = { method: string; params: Params };

type SignedRequestParameters<Params> = [
  requestPayload: RequestPayload<Params>,
  signature: `0x${string}`,
  keyId: string,
];
```

Here's a non-normative example of calling `wallet_signedRequest` using the [EIP-1193](./eip-1193.md) provider interface:

```typescript
const keyId = '1';
const requestPayload: RequestPayload<TransactionParams> = {
  method: 'eth_sendTransaction',
  params: [
    {
      /* ... */
    },
  ],
};
const signature: `0x${string}` = await getSignature(requestPayload, keyId);

// Using the EIP-1193 provider interface
const result = await ethereum.request({
  method: 'wallet_signedRequest',
  params: [requestPayload, signature, keyId],
});
```

#### Signature verification

1. Upon receiving an [EIP-1193](./eip-1193.md) call, the wallet MUST check of the existence of the TWIST manifest for the `sender.tab.url` domain
   a. The wallet MUST enforce HTTPS as HTTP call would be vulnerable to DNS spoofing
   b. The wallet MUST verify that the manifest is hosted on the `sender.tab.url` domain
   c. The wallet SHOULD find the DNS TXT record to find the manifest location
   d. The wallet MAY first try the `/.well-known/twist.json` location
   e. The wallet MUST NOT follow redirects when querying the manifest location as it could lead to open redirect attacks
   f. The wallet SHOULD validate the `Content-Type` header of the response is specifically set to `application/json`
2. If TWIST is NOT configured for the `sender.tab.url` domain, then proceed as usual
3. If TWIST is configured and the `request` method is used, then the wallet SHOULD display a visible and actionable warning to the user
   a. If the user opts to ignore the warning, then proceed as usual
   b. If the user opts to cancel, then the wallet MUST cancel the call
4. If TWIST is configured and the `wallet_signedRequest` method is used with the parameters `requestPayload`, `signature` and `keyId` then:
   a. The wallet MAY display a visible cue indicating that this interaction is signed
   b. The wallet MUST verify that the keyId exists in the TWIST manifest and find the associated key record
   c. From the key record, the wallet MUST use the `alg` field and the `publicKey` field to verify `requestPayload` integrity by calling `crypto.verify(alg, key, signature, requestPayload)`
   d. If the signature is invalid, the wallet MUST display a visible and actionable warning to the user
   i. If the user opts to ignore the warning, then proceed to call `request` with the argument `requestPayload`
   ii. If the user opts to cancel, then the wallet MUST cancel the call
   e. If the signature is valid, the wallet MUST call `request` with the argument `requestPayload`

#### Example method implementation (wallet)

```typescript
async function signedRequest(
  requestPayload: RequestPayload<unknown>,
  signature: `0x${string}`,
  keyId: string,
): Promise<unknown> {
  // 1. Get the domain of the sender.tab.url
  const domain = getDappDomain();

  // 2. Get the manifest for the current domain
  // It's possible to use RFC 8484 for the actual DNS-over-HTTPS specification.
  // However, here we are doing it with DoHjs.
  // This step is optional, and you could go directly to the well-known address first at `domain + '/.well-known/twist.json'`
  const doh = require('dohjs');
  const resolver = new doh.DohResolver('<doh-endpoint>');

  let manifestPath = '';
  const dnsResp = await resolver.query(domain, 'TXT');
  for (const record of dnsResp.answers) {
    if (!record.data.startsWith('TWIST=')) continue;

    manifestPath = record.data.substring(5); // This should be domain + '/.well-known/twist.json'
    break;
  }

  // 3. Parse the manifest and get the key and algo based on `keyId`
  const manifestUrl = `https://${domain}${manifestPath.startsWith('/') ? '' : '/'}${manifestPath}`;
  const manifestReq = await fetch(manifestUrl, { redirect: 'error' });
  const contentType = (manifestReq.headers.get('content-type') || '').toLowerCase();
  if (!contentType.startsWith('application/json')) {
    throw new Error('The manifest is not a proper JSON file');
  }
  const manifest = await manifestReq.json();
  const keyData = manifest.publicKeys.find((x) => x.id === keyId);
  if (!keyData) {
    throw new Error('Could not find the signing key');
  }

  const key = keyData.publicKey;
  const alg = keyData.alg;

  // 4. Verify the signature
  const valid = await crypto.verify(alg, key, signature, requestPayload);
  if (!valid) {
    throw new Error('The data was tampered with');
  }
  return await processRequest(requestPayload);
}
```

### Wallet UX suggestion

Similarly to the padlock icon for HTTPS, wallets should display a visible indication when TWIST is configured on a domain. This will improve the UX of the end user who will immediately be able to tell
that interactions between the dapp they are using and the wallet are secure, and this will encourage dapp developer to adopt TWIST, making the overall ecosystem more secure

When dealing with insecure request, either because the dapp (or an attacker) uses `request` on a domain where TWIST is configured, or because the signature does not match, wallets should warn the user but
not block: an eloquently worded warning will increase the transparency enough that end user may opt to cancel the interaction or proceed with the unsafe call.

## Rationale

The proposed implementation does not modify any of the existing functionalities offered by [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) and [EIP-1193](./eip-1193.md). Its additive
nature makes it inherently backward compatible. Its core design is modeled after existing solutions to existing problems (such as DKIM). As a result the proposed specification will be non disruptive, easy to
implements for both wallets and dapps, with a predictable threat model.

## Security Considerations

### Replay prevention

While signing the `requestArg` payload guarantees data integrity, it does not prevent replay attacks in itself:

1. a signed payload can be replayed multiple times
2. a signed payload can be replayed across multiple chains

_Effective_ time replay attacks as described in `1.` are generally prevented by the transaction nonce.
Cross chain replay can be prevented by leveraging the [EIP-712](./eip-712.md) `signTypedData` method.

Replay attack would still be possible on any method that is not protected by either: this affects effectively all the "readonly" methods
which are of very limited value for an attacker.

For these reason, we do not recommend a specific replay protection mechanism at this time. If/when the need arise, the extensibility of
the manifest will provide the necessary room to enforce a replay protection envelope (eg:JWT) for affected dapp.

### Malicious manifests

The manifest itself could be attacked, defeating the purpose of TWIST. We identified the following possible attacks, and their counter measure:

1. An attacker can spoof DNS entries and use it to serve their own manifest: to avoid this, the wallet implementation MUST only query the manifest from `'https://${sender.tab.url}/${pathFromDNSRecord}`
2. An attacker can leverage other flaws in a dapp to host a malicious manifest on the dapp domain itself
   a. by leveraging open redirect: consequently the wallet MUST NOT follow redirect when querying the manifest
   b. by managing to host a file on the dapp domain: consequently the wallet SHOULD verify the `content-type` header is equal to `application/json` to mitigate this attack vector

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
