ERCS/erc-7828.md, before:

---
eip: 7828
title: Interoperable Names
description: Defines a human readable chain-specific address format that allows for chain discovery using ENS.
author: Sam Kaufman (@SampkaML), Marco Stronati (@paracetamolo), Yuliya Alexiev (@yuliyaalexiev), Jeff Lau (@jefflau), Sam Wilson (@samwilsn), Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin), Teddy (@0xteddybear), Joxes (@Joxess), Racu (@0xRacoon), Skeletor Spaceman (@0xskeletor-spaceman), TiTi (@0xtiti), Gori (@0xGorilla), Ardy (@0xArdy), Onizuka (@onizuka-wl), Lumi (@oxlumi), Moebius (@0xmoebius), Thomas Clowes (@clowestab), Prem Makeig (@nxt3d), Mono (@0xMonoAx), Orca (@0xrcinus)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7828-chain-specific-addresses-using-ens/21930
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-27
requires: 155, 7930
---

## Abstract

This proposal defines an _Interoperable Name_, a human-readable _chain-specific address_ format that MAY represent the _target address_ as an ENS name.

Additionally, the target chain component of an _Interoperable Name_ may be expressed as a human-readable label. This specification defines how such labels can be resolved, via the Ethereum Name Service (ENS), to chain-specific metadata.

The result is _chain-specific addresses_ such as `wallet.ensdao.eth@eip155:1`, `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1` or the maximally readable `wallet.ensdao.eth@ethereum`.

## Motivation

The core motivation for introducing the _Interoperable Name_ standard is to provide maximally readable, _chain-specific addresses_ for user-facing interactions.

[ERC-7930] introduced a binary format for representing a _target address_ on a specific blockchain. While this binary data is well suited for low-level usage (e.g. in smart contracts), its meaning is semantically opaque to human users.

A foundational text representation (e.g. `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1`) enables a significantly more readable _chain-specific address_ format. An expanded form that leverages the name resolution capabilities of the Ethereum Name Service (ENS) further improves readability, allowing addresses to be expressed in a maximally human-friendly form (e.g. `wallet.ensdao.eth@ethereum`).

An on-chain registry provides a canonical source of truth for mapping human-readable chain labels to the metadata associated with each chain. Today, chains are identified using a variety of specifications (e.g. [CAIP-2] and [EIP-155] for EVM-compatible networks), whose formats are not necessarily semantically clear to human users. By introducing an on-chain registry, applications can refer to a chain using a readable identifier such as `base`, rather than an opaque identifier like `eip155:8543` or `8543`.

Historically, the mapping from chain names to identifiers has, since [EIP-155], been maintained off-chain using a centralized list.

This approach has several shortcomings:
- It does not scale with the growing number of blockchains
- It relies on a trusted centralized maintainer
- It does not support non-EVM chains

This specification defines an architecture that enables chain operators to take ownership of their chain-specific data, thereby reducing reliance on a single centralized entity and ensuring data integrity.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Terminology

This section builds upon the Terminology defined in [ERC-7930].

**Interoperable Name**
: A human-readable _chain-specific address_ format meant to be used by humans for user-facing interactions. e.g. `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:1#4CA88C9C`

### Interoperable Name Definition

The format of an _Interoperable Name_ is `<address> @ <chain> # <checksum>` where the components match the following regular expressions:

#### Syntax
```bnf
<address>             ::= [.-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*
<chain>               ::= [.-:_a-zA-Z0-9]*
<checksum>            ::= [0-9A-F]{8}
```

These components have the following meanings:

- `<address>` can either be:

    - A _target address_ as defined in [ERC-7930].
    - An Ethereum Name Service (ENS) name. e.g, `wallet.ensdao.eth`

- `<chain>` can either be:

    - The string representation of a specific blockchain as defined in [CAIP-350]. For example `eip155:1` for Ethereum Mainnet, or `solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d` for Solana Mainnet.
    - A human-readable label identifier for a specific chain, defined and registered as a subdomain of the `on.eth` ENS name. An on-chain resolver contract maps these labels to their corresponding canonical [ERC-7930] chain identifiers, and exposes additional chain metadata.

- `<checksum>` is defined as the first 4 bytes (8 characters) of the Keccak-256 hash, represented as a hexadecimal string (Base16, as specified in [RFC 4648]). The hash is computed over the concatenation of the following binary fields from the canonical [ERC-7930] Interoperable Address:

    - `ChainType`   
    - `ChainReferenceLength`
    - `ChainReference`
    - `AddressLength`
    - `Address`

**Note:** The Version field MUST NOT be included in the hashed data.

#### Checksums

- Clients MAY include the checksum when displaying an _Interoperable Name_ within their interface.
- The checksum MUST be computed and included when **sharing** an _Interoperable Name_. 
- Clients MAY accept _Interoperable Name_ inputs without a checksum.

When a user-provided _Interoperable Name_ is inputted with a checksum, clients MUST derive the underlying _Interoperable Address_, recalculate the checksum, and compare it to the provided value. In case of a mismatch, clients MUST warn the user and require explicit user input to continue with the operation.

It is not guaranteed that an ENS name defined within the `<address>` component will always resolve to the same address. In some cases resolvers return a new address on each resolution. In this scenario the validation of a previously generated checksum will always fail. 

### _Target Address_ Examples

#### Ethereum Mainnet

The address `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7` on Ethereum Mainnet could be represented as either of the following:

```
0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1#80B12379
0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@ethereum#80B12379
```

**Note:** In the second example `ethereum` is the chain label for Ethereum mainnet in the on-chain ENS resolver set for the `on.eth` namespace (see below).

#### Non-EVM chains

The address `bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk` on Bitcoin Mainnet could be represented as:

```
bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk@bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93#597D21A1
bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk@bitcoin#597D21A1
```

**Note:** In the second example `bitcoin` is the chain label for Bitcoin mainnet in the on-chain ENS resolver set for the `on.eth` namespace (see below).

### ENS `<address>` Examples

ENS resolves addresses on a chain-specific basis, as outlined in ENSIP-9 and ENSIP-11.

#### Ethereum Mainnet

Assuming that `wallet.ensdao.eth` resolves to `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7` **for Ethereum mainnet** either of the following could be used to represent the same _target address_:

```
wallet.ensdao.eth@eip155:1#80B12379
wallet.ensdao.eth@ethereum#80B12379
```

#### Non-EVM chains

Assuming that `wallet.ensdao.eth` resolves to `bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk` **for Bitcoin mainnet** either of the following could be used to represent the same _target address_:

```
wallet.ensdao.eth@bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93#597D21A1
wallet.ensdao.eth@bitcoin#597D21A1
```

### Resolving the `<chain>` component

If the `<chain>` component of an _Interoperable Address_ does not contain a colon (`:`) it is interpreted as being label under the `on.eth` ENS namespace.

The resolver for `on.eth` MUST implement ENSIP-24 - Arbitrary Data Resolution, and allow for the resolution of the [ERC-7930] _Interoperable Address_ for the specified chain label using the key, `interoperable-address`. For example if you resolve the `interoperable-address` data record for `ethereum.on.eth` the _Interoperable Address_ `0x00010000010100` SHOULD be returned.

The on-chain resolver for `on.eth` MAY implement aliasing so that multiple chain labels, such as `op.on.eth` and `optimism.on.eth`, resolve to the same underlying data. To ensure consistency and integrity, there must be a single canonical representation of this data.

A pseudocode implementation of this resolution is as follows:

```js
/**
 * Pseudocode to resolve the Interoperable Address associated with 'ethereum.on.eth' 
 * Using ENSIP-24 and the data key 'interoperable-address'
 */

// 1. Inputs
const domain = "ethereum.on.eth";
const key = "interoperable-address";

// 2. Derive the Node (Namehash)
const node = namehash(domain);

// 3. Locate the Resolver for the node
const registry = getContract(ENS_REGISTRY_ADDRESS);
const resolverAddress = registry.resolver(node);

// 4. Instantiate the Resolver
const resolver = getContract(resolverAddress);

// 5. Resolve the Interoperable Address
// ENSIP-24 Interface: data(bytes32 node, string key) -> bytes
const rawData = resolver.data(node, key);
```

The resolver for `on.eth` MUST implement ENSIP-5 - Text Records, and allow for the resolution of text records for the `reverse.on.eth` namespace of the form `chain-label:` followed by the [ERC-7930] _Interoperable Address_ you are trying to discern the label for. For example, the _Interoperable Address_ representing Ethereum Mainnet is `0x00010000010100`. Resolution of the text record `chain-label:0x00010000010100` for the `reverse.on.eth` namespace SHOULD return `ethereum`.

While multiple labels - such as `op.on.eth` and `optimism.on.eth` — may resolve to the _Interoperable Address_ `0x00010000010a00`, the reverse resolution process will always return the canonical label: `optimism`.

A pseudocode implementation of this resolution is as follows:

```js
/**
 * Pseudocode to resolve a chain label from an ERC-7930 Interoperable Address
 * Using ENSIP-5, the namespace reverse.on.eth, and the text record key chain-label:0x00010000010a00
 */

// 1. Inputs
const interoperableAddress = "0x00010000010a00";
const namespace = "reverse.on.eth";

// 2. Construct the specific Text Record Key
// Format: "chain-label:" + [ERC-7930 Address]
const textKey = "chain-label:" + interoperableAddress;

// 3. Derive the Node (Namehash) for the reverse namespace
const node = namehash(namespace);

// 4. Locate the Resolver for 'reverse.on.eth'
// As the resolver will be set on the second level domain `on.eth` consideration should be given to ENSIP-10
const registry = getContract(ENS_REGISTRY_ADDRESS);
const resolverAddress = registry.resolver(node);

// 5. Instantiate the Resolver
const resolver = getContract(resolverAddress);

// 6. Query the Text Record (ENSIP-5)
// Signature: text(bytes32 node, string key) -> string
const chainLabel = resolver.text(node, textKey);
```

Additional implementation details about the resolver contract implementation can be discerned by referencing the ENS documentation, and viewing the verified source code of the contract set as the resolver for `on.eth`.


### Resolving the `<address>` component

If the `<address>` component contains a period (`.`), it is assumed to be an ENS name. Because ENS fully integrates with the Domain Name System (DNS), any traditional domain name can function as an ENS name, as can any name using the blockchain-native `.eth` extension.

If an ENS address is used within the `<address>` component, it MUST be resolved subject to the ENS resolution specifications, giving consideration to the target chain specified in the `<chain>` component.

The specifications of note are ENSIP-9: Multichain address resolution, ENSIP-10: Wildcard resolution, and ENSIP-11: EVM compatible Chain Address Resolution. These specification outline how one resolves an ENS name to discern the address **for a specific chain**. Consideration MUST be given to both current and future ENSIPs pertaining to address resolution.

If a _target address_ has been used for the `<address>` component (or once the ENS name has been resolved to a _target address_) it should be serialized subject to the rules defined in the relevant [CAIP-350] profile for the given `<chain>`. This ensures that different valid text representations (e.g., case variations in an address) resolve to a single, canonical binary form, which is essential for consistent checksum calculation and data integrity.

## Rationale

- The ENS protocol is a well-established blockchain identity primitive that allows the registration of names like `example.eth` and `wallet.ensdao.eth` that _resolve_ to addresses on a chain-specific basis. It is familiar and well understood.
- We allow a raw _target address_ to be used in the `<address>` component for flexibility, and to cater to users who prefer traditional address representations.

## Security Considerations

- Implementers MUST give consideration to the name normalization specifications of the Ethereum Name Service so as to avoid homoglyph or spoofing attacks. These are outlined in ENSIP-1 and ENSIP-15.
- Users should stay vigilant of address poisoning attacks when using a raw _target address_ in the `<address>` component.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).


[BIP 44]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/1d371a58978fd2f313c9d162762de04d3b697bf5/bip-0044.mediawiki
[EIP-155]: ./eip-155.md
[ERC-7930]: ./eip-7930.md
[CAIP-2]: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/36ef9ee906da090366cb679634a0850e91785db6/CAIPs/caip-2.md
[CAIP-350]: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/29762ef99a6ffea1e07e3f796c0d1a5a95e89b88/CAIPs/caip-350.md
[RFC 4648]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648
[ENSIP-1]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1/
[ENSIP-5]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/5/
[ENSIP-9]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/9/
[ENSIP-10]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/10/
[ENSIP-11]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/11/
[ENSIP-15]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/15/
[ENSIP-24]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/24/

Commit message:

Update ERC-7828: Update section Abstract and Motivation

ERCS/erc-7828.md, after:

---
eip: 7828
title: Interoperable Names
description: Defines a human readable chain-specific address format that allows for chain discovery using ENS.
author: Sam Kaufman (@SampkaML), Marco Stronati (@paracetamolo), Yuliya Alexiev (@yuliyaalexiev), Jeff Lau (@jefflau), Sam Wilson (@samwilsn), Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin), Teddy (@0xteddybear), Joxes (@Joxess), Racu (@0xRacoon), Skeletor Spaceman (@0xskeletor-spaceman), TiTi (@0xtiti), Gori (@0xGorilla), Ardy (@0xArdy), Onizuka (@onizuka-wl), Lumi (@oxlumi), Moebius (@0xmoebius), Thomas Clowes (@clowestab), Prem Makeig (@nxt3d), Mono (@0xMonoAx), Orca (@0xrcinus)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7828-chain-specific-addresses-using-ens/21930
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-27
requires: 155, 7930
---

## Abstract

This proposal defines an _Interoperable Name_, a _chain-specific address_ format with the structure `<address>@<chain>#<checksum>`, where both `<address>` and `<chain>` can be expressed as human-readable names and resolved via ENS.

An on-chain registry enables decentralized resolution of chain labels to their canonical identifiers, while address resolution leverages existing ENS infrastructure.

The result is chain-specific addresses such as:

- `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1#80B12379`
- `alice.eth@eip155:1#80B12379`
- `alice.eth@base#80B12379`

## Motivation

The current Ethereum address landscape is evolving toward an ecosystem with hundreds, and eventually thousands, of L2s that share the same address format as Ethereum mainnet. This means an address by itself is insufficient to determine which chain it is associated with. This ambiguity can result in funds being sent to an unreachable address on the wrong chain. From a user account, it should be possible to obtain the correct chain identifier (`chainId`) to include in a transaction.

[ERC-7930] introduced a binary format for representing a _target address_ on a specific blockchain. While this binary data is well suited for low-level usage (e.g. in smart contracts), its meaning is semantically opaque to human users.

A foundational text representation (e.g. `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1`) enables a significantly more readable _chain-specific address_ format. An expanded form that leverages the name resolution capabilities of the Ethereum Name Service (ENS) further improves readability, allowing addresses to be expressed in a maximally human-friendly form (e.g. `wallet.ensdao.eth@ethereum`).

An on-chain registry provides a canonical source of truth for mapping human-readable chain labels to the metadata associated with each chain. Today, chains are identified using a variety of specifications (e.g. [CAIP-2] and [EIP-155] for EVM-compatible networks), whose formats are not necessarily semantically clear to human users. By introducing an on-chain registry, applications can refer to a chain using a readable identifier such as `base`, rather than an opaque identifier like `eip155:8453` or `8453`.

Historically, the mapping from chain names to identifiers has, since [EIP-155], been maintained off-chain using a centralized list.

This approach has several shortcomings:
- It does not scale with the growing number of blockchains
- It relies on a trusted centralized maintainer
- It does not support non-EVM chains

This specification defines an architecture that enables chain operators to take ownership of their chain-specific data, thereby reducing reliance on a single centralized entity and ensuring data integrity.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Terminology

This section builds upon the Terminology defined in [ERC-7930].

**Interoperable Name**
: A human-readable _chain-specific address_ format meant to be used by humans for user-facing interactions. e.g. `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:1#4CA88C9C`

### Interoperable Name Definition

The format of an _Interoperable Name_ is `<address> @ <chain> # <checksum>` where the components match the following regular expressions:

#### Syntax
```bnf
<address>             ::= [.-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*
<chain>               ::= [.-:_a-zA-Z0-9]*
<checksum>            ::= [0-9A-F]{8}
```

These components have the following meanings:

- `<address>` can either be:

    - A _target address_ as defined in [ERC-7930].
    - An Ethereum Name Service (ENS) name. e.g, `wallet.ensdao.eth`

- `<chain>` can either be:

    - The string representation of a specific blockchain as defined in [CAIP-350]. For example `eip155:1` for Ethereum Mainnet, or `solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d` for Solana Mainnet.
    - A human-readable label identifier for a specific chain, defined and registered as a subdomain of the `on.eth` ENS name. An on-chain resolver contract maps these labels to their corresponding canonical [ERC-7930] chain identifiers, and exposes additional chain metadata.

- `<checksum>` is defined as the first 4 bytes (8 characters) of the Keccak-256 hash, represented as a hexadecimal string (Base16, as specified in [RFC 4648]). The hash is computed over the concatenation of the following binary fields from the canonical [ERC-7930] Interoperable Address:

    - `ChainType`   
    - `ChainReferenceLength`
    - `ChainReference`
    - `AddressLength`
    - `Address`

**Note:** The Version field MUST NOT be included in the hashed data.

#### Checksums

- Clients MAY include the checksum when displaying an _Interoperable Name_ within their interface.
- The checksum MUST be computed and included when **sharing** an _Interoperable Name_. 
- Clients MAY accept _Interoperable Name_ inputs without a checksum.

When a user-provided _Interoperable Name_ is inputted with a checksum, clients MUST derive the underlying _Interoperable Address_, recalculate the checksum, and compare it to the provided value. In case of a mismatch, clients MUST warn the user and require explicit user input to continue with the operation.

It is not guaranteed that an ENS name defined within the `<address>` component will always resolve to the same address. In some cases resolvers return a new address on each resolution. In this scenario the validation of a previously generated checksum will always fail. 

### _Target Address_ Examples

#### Ethereum Mainnet

The address `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7` on Ethereum Mainnet could be represented as either of the following:

```
0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@eip155:1#80B12379
0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7@ethereum#80B12379
```

**Note:** In the second example `ethereum` is the chain label for Ethereum mainnet in the on-chain ENS resolver set for the `on.eth` namespace (see below).

#### Non-EVM chains

The address `bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk` on Bitcoin Mainnet could be represented as:

```
bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk@bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93#597D21A1
bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk@bitcoin#597D21A1
```

**Note:** In the second example `bitcoin` is the chain label for Bitcoin mainnet in the on-chain ENS resolver set for the `on.eth` namespace (see below).

### ENS `<address>` Examples

ENS resolves addresses on a chain-specific basis, as outlined in ENSIP-9 and ENSIP-11.

#### Ethereum Mainnet

Assuming that `wallet.ensdao.eth` resolves to `0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7` **for Ethereum mainnet** either of the following could be used to represent the same _target address_:

```
wallet.ensdao.eth@eip155:1#80B12379
wallet.ensdao.eth@ethereum#80B12379
```

#### Non-EVM chains

Assuming that `wallet.ensdao.eth` resolves to `bc1qwz2lhc40s8ty3l5jg3plpve3y3l82x9l42q7fk` **for Bitcoin mainnet** either of the following could be used to represent the same _target address_:

```
wallet.ensdao.eth@bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93#597D21A1
wallet.ensdao.eth@bitcoin#597D21A1
```

### Resolving the `<chain>` component

If the `<chain>` component of an _Interoperable Address_ does not contain a colon (`:`) it is interpreted as being label under the `on.eth` ENS namespace.

The resolver for `on.eth` MUST implement ENSIP-24 - Arbitrary Data Resolution, and allow for the resolution of the [ERC-7930] _Interoperable Address_ for the specified chain label using the key, `interoperable-address`. For example if you resolve the `interoperable-address` data record for `ethereum.on.eth` the _Interoperable Address_ `0x00010000010100` SHOULD be returned.

The on-chain resolver for `on.eth` MAY implement aliasing so that multiple chain labels, such as `op.on.eth` and `optimism.on.eth`, resolve to the same underlying data. To ensure consistency and integrity, there must be a single canonical representation of this data.

A pseudocode implementation of this resolution is as follows:

```js
/**
 * Pseudocode to resolve the Interoperable Address associated with 'ethereum.on.eth' 
 * Using ENSIP-24 and the data key 'interoperable-address'
 */

// 1. Inputs
const domain = "ethereum.on.eth";
const key = "interoperable-address";

// 2. Derive the Node (Namehash)
const node = namehash(domain);

// 3. Locate the Resolver for the node
const registry = getContract(ENS_REGISTRY_ADDRESS);
const resolverAddress = registry.resolver(node);

// 4. Instantiate the Resolver
const resolver = getContract(resolverAddress);

// 5. Resolve the Interoperable Address
// ENSIP-24 Interface: data(bytes32 node, string key) -> bytes
const rawData = resolver.data(node, key);
```

The resolver for `on.eth` MUST implement ENSIP-5 - Text Records, and allow for the resolution of text records for the `reverse.on.eth` namespace of the form `chain-label:` followed by the [ERC-7930] _Interoperable Address_ you are trying to discern the label for. For example, the _Interoperable Address_ representing Ethereum Mainnet is `0x00010000010100`. Resolution of the text record `chain-label:0x00010000010100` for the `reverse.on.eth` namespace SHOULD return `ethereum`.

While multiple labels - such as `op.on.eth` and `optimism.on.eth` — may resolve to the _Interoperable Address_ `0x00010000010a00`, the reverse resolution process will always return the canonical label: `optimism`.

A pseudocode implementation of this resolution is as follows:

```js
/**
 * Pseudocode to resolve a chain label from an ERC-7930 Interoperable Address
 * Using ENSIP-5, the namespace reverse.on.eth, and the text record key chain-label:0x00010000010a00
 */

// 1. Inputs
const interoperableAddress = "0x00010000010a00";
const namespace = "reverse.on.eth";

// 2. Construct the specific Text Record Key
// Format: "chain-label:" + [ERC-7930 Address]
const textKey = "chain-label:" + interoperableAddress;

// 3. Derive the Node (Namehash) for the reverse namespace
const node = namehash(namespace);

// 4. Locate the Resolver for 'reverse.on.eth'
// As the resolver will be set on the second level domain `on.eth` consideration should be given to ENSIP-10
const registry = getContract(ENS_REGISTRY_ADDRESS);
const resolverAddress = registry.resolver(node);

// 5. Instantiate the Resolver
const resolver = getContract(resolverAddress);

// 6. Query the Text Record (ENSIP-5)
// Signature: text(bytes32 node, string key) -> string
const chainLabel = resolver.text(node, textKey);
```

Additional implementation details about the resolver contract implementation can be discerned by referencing the ENS documentation, and viewing the verified source code of the contract set as the resolver for `on.eth`.


### Resolving the `<address>` component

If the `<address>` component contains a period (`.`), it is assumed to be an ENS name. Because ENS fully integrates with the Domain Name System (DNS), any traditional domain name can function as an ENS name, as can any name using the blockchain-native `.eth` extension.

If an ENS address is used within the `<address>` component, it MUST be resolved subject to the ENS resolution specifications, giving consideration to the target chain specified in the `<chain>` component.

The specifications of note are ENSIP-9: Multichain address resolution, ENSIP-10: Wildcard resolution, and ENSIP-11: EVM compatible Chain Address Resolution. These specification outline how one resolves an ENS name to discern the address **for a specific chain**. Consideration MUST be given to both current and future ENSIPs pertaining to address resolution.

If a _target address_ has been used for the `<address>` component (or once the ENS name has been resolved to a _target address_) it should be serialized subject to the rules defined in the relevant [CAIP-350] profile for the given `<chain>`. This ensures that different valid text representations (e.g., case variations in an address) resolve to a single, canonical binary form, which is essential for consistent checksum calculation and data integrity.

## Rationale

- The ENS protocol is a well-established blockchain identity primitive that allows the registration of names like `example.eth` and `wallet.ensdao.eth` that _resolve_ to addresses on a chain-specific basis. It is familiar and well understood.
- We allow a raw _target address_ to be used in the `<address>` component for flexibility, and to cater to users who prefer traditional address representations.

## Security Considerations

- Implementers MUST give consideration to the name normalization specifications of the Ethereum Name Service so as to avoid homoglyph or spoofing attacks. These are outlined in ENSIP-1 and ENSIP-15.
- Users should stay vigilant of address poisoning attacks when using a raw _target address_ in the `<address>` component.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).


[BIP 44]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/1d371a58978fd2f313c9d162762de04d3b697bf5/bip-0044.mediawiki
[EIP-155]: ./eip-155.md
[ERC-7930]: ./eip-7930.md
[CAIP-2]: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/36ef9ee906da090366cb679634a0850e91785db6/CAIPs/caip-2.md
[CAIP-350]: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/29762ef99a6ffea1e07e3f796c0d1a5a95e89b88/CAIPs/caip-350.md
[RFC 4648]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648
[ENSIP-1]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1/
[ENSIP-5]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/5/
[ENSIP-9]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/9/
[ENSIP-10]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/10/
[ENSIP-11]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/11/
[ENSIP-15]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/15/
[ENSIP-24]: https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/24/
