---
eip: 8270
title: Canonical Validator Wrapper
description: Minimalist contract to make Beacon Chain withdrawal credentials transferable
author: Julie B. (@bbjubjub2494)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8270-canonical-validator-wrapper/28599
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2026-05-23
requires: 1014, 7002, 7251
---
## Abstract

We propose a straightforward, trustless contract that issues NFTs conferring their holder control over the stake of a single validator on the Beacon Chain.

## Motivation

The Beacon Chain allows a validator to provide a withdrawal address on the Execution Layer where all of their ether will be directed once it leaves the Beacon Chain. By design, this address cannot be changed once set. In practice, it is set either to the owner's wallet, or to a contract associated with a pooled staking protocol. After that, the only way to change to a different arrangement is to exit the validator entirely and create a new one.
This ERC introduces a thin wrapper around the withdrawal address. A non-fungible token, which can be kept in the user's wallet or escrowed in any protocol, trustlessly controls the withdrawal address. This allows building interoperable pooled staking protocols, whether trustless or intermediated, that validator operators can enter or exit at will depending on their liquidity needs.
In order to avoid fragmentation, there should be one standard wrapper contract.

## Specification

The smart contract source code for this ERC is available at https://github.com/bbjubjub2494/erc-8270, and can be deployed trustlessly using Arachnid's deterministic deployment proxy. It consists of a minimal withdrawal receiver contract which is deployed using a proxy for each NFT, and the main contract, which implements the [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) interface as well as the metadata and enumeration extensions.
The main contract allows anyone to mint a token associated with a specific validator public key. A proxy contract is immediately deployed to a unique withdrawal address. Holding the token confers full control over the withdrawal address and thus, once the validator is deployed, of its stake. More specifically, the main contract offers the following bespoke methods for the token holder to call:
- `pullNativeBalance(tokenId, destination)` move the ether in the withdrawal address to the destination via a call.
- `requestFullWithdrawal(tokenId)` use [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) to force an exit of the validator. The EIP-7002 fee will be paid from the balance of the withdrawal address. If necessary, the caller can add value to the call that will first be added to the withdrawal address balance.
- `requestPartialWithdrawal(tokenId, amount)` use EIP-7002 to withdraw part of the validator's consensus layer balance. The fee is handled as described previously.
- `requestConsolidation(tokenId, targetKeyHi, targetKeyLo)` send and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) request to consolidate the validator's stake into another validator. The fee is handled identically to the EIP-7002 fee.
- `requestSwitchToCompounding(tokenId)` special case of the previous function to consolidate the validator into itself in order to make it compound its rewards on the beacon chain.
- `arbitraryCall(tokenId, target, data)` perform an EVM call from the withdrawal address, forwarding the call value passed by the caller. This is intended to be used for anything not anticipated by this ERC, such as collecting airdropped tokens.
In addition, the main contract implements [ERC-5646](./eip-5646.md), which allows other contracts to query the implementation-defined state fingerprint of a given token. Since information about validators is not synchronously accessible on the execution layer, the token state in this ERC is defined as the list of past actions performed through the main contract that could affect the funds of the validator, i.e. consolidation requests, pulling the execution layer balance and performing arbitrary calls.

## Rationale

### ERC-721
The decision to use non-fungible tokens stems from the fact that one unit of stake in one validator is not inherently interchangeable with one in another, since both validators can earn different rewards, get slashed, or exit independently from one another. A complex layer of abstraction would be necessary to make them fungible, which we avoid for the sake of minimalism. Wrappers on top of this ERC can implement their preferred fungibility concept if desired.

### ERC-5646
Implementing ERC-5646 counters the attack vector described in [[#Collateral Value]], only using one storage slot per token. It also allows wrapped validators to be used as collateral in generic trustless lending protocols such as [PWN](https://pwn.xyz/).

### CREATE2 salt
When a user requests a token be minted, the resulting withdrawal address depends only on the user provided validator key and initial owner address. This means that withdrawal addresses are predictable (but not ERC-721 token ids) and thus that validator deposits can safely be performed ahead of time. This also protects in some reorg scenarios. Since the owner address is also included, this is not a DoS vector.

### Storage Layout
The main contract keeps storage slots associated with a given token adjacent, and aligns them to a power of two. This has little impact under current conditions, but should a state tree upgrade similar to [EIP-6800](./eip-6800.md) or [EIP-7864](./eip-7864.md) occur, it ensures all the slots are warmed up at once, saving gas, and that consecutively minted batches of tokens are cheaper to manipulate.

## Security Considerations

### Smart Contract Correctness
A bug in the wrapped validator contracts could have serious consequences. To reduce the probability of one, the contracts are designed to be minimal, taking on just enough complexity so that higher layers can implement all foreseeable features. They are written using high-level constructs in the Vyper language — for which a formally verified compiler is expected soon, and only perform sensible and conservative gas optimisations. Third-party code review and formal verification are TBD.

### Collateral Value
The existence of an wrapped validator token does not guarantee that a validator with the same public key is present on the consensus layer and that its withdrawal credentials are correctly set. Counterparties treating wrapped validator tokens as collateral should ensure that this is the case by querying the consensus layer. Additionally, if the token is under the immediate control of a counterparty, they should use ERC-5646 to guard against front-running attacks, where the counterparty withdraws part of the stake at the last moment.
Smart contracts dealing with wrapped validator tokens can use [EIP-4788](./eip-4788.md) to verify proofs of the validator's state if needed.

### Deposit Front-running
If no deposit has been made for a given validator yet, care should be taken to deal with deposit front-running by the party holding the validator key. ([An attack described in detail here](https://ethresear.ch/t/deposit-contract-exploit/6528)) There are two trustless ways to address this: one is to require the party to perform a 1 ETH pre-deposit to set the credentials, the other is to use the deposit contract Merkle root to detect the attack and revert the deposit. If [EIP-8025](./eip-8025.md) is activated, it can also be used to mitigate this attack.

### Slashing and Penalties
The validator can leak or get slashed if its operator misbehaves. This issue can be handled economically by ensuring the operator retains exposure to a fraction of the validator's stake that can be seized in case the value of the stake goes down. This is also why wrapped validator tokens should not be naively bought or sold.

### MEV Income
The withdrawal credential does not capture MEV-related income that the operator may be able to extract by running the node. This can be accounted for by charging a sufficient interest rate to the operator.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
