ERCS/erc-8060.md, before:

---
eip: 8060
title: Native ETH embedding in NFTs
description: Enables each ERC-721 token to natively hold and redeem verifiable ETH balance within its own contract logic.
author: TEN.IO Meta (@ten-io-meta) <ten.io.meta@gmail.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8060-ierc721value-native-eth-embedding/25979
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-26
requires: 721
---

## Abstract
This proposal introduces `IERC721Value`, an extension to [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) that lets each non-fungible token natively hold and later redeem ETH. Unlike wrapped or delegated designs, the ETH is accounted for directly within the NFT contract.

## Motivation
ERC-721 provides a standard for non-fungible identity and ownership, but does not define a way to bind native ETH value to that identity in a non-custodial and irreversible manner. As a result, value-bearing NFT designs today rely on external vaults, wrapped assets, or delegated custody, fragmenting the economic model and increasing trust assumptions.

This proposal introduces a primitive that allows native ETH to be embedded directly within the lifecycle of an ERC-721 token, where the only way to reclaim that value is by destroying the non-fungible state itself. This enables patterns that are not well supported by existing standards.

Specifically, this ERC unlocks:

- Non-fungible assets with a guaranteed intrinsic value floor, independent of secondary markets.
- Rights, licenses, or permits whose economic collateral is inseparable from the non-fungible identity that defines them.
- Non-custodial escrows or guarantees represented as transferable NFTs, redeemable only through burn.
- Long-term value containers where liquidity is intentionally constrained and recovery requires explicit state destruction.

Potential actors interested in this primitive include creators and publishers of value-backed digital or physical assets, systems issuing licenses or certifications with economic guarantees, and applications requiring simple, non-custodial value escrow tied to unique identifiers.

The goal of this ERC is not to prescribe a specific application, but to define a reusable and application-agnostic mechanism for binding non-fungible identity and irreversible native ETH value within Ethereum.

## Specification
This ERC extends [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and adds:
- `valueOf(uint256 tokenId) → uint256`: returns the ETH embedded for a token.
- `mintWithValue(address to, uint256 tokenId)` (**payable**): mints a token embedding `msg.value`.
- `burn(uint256 tokenId)`: burns a token and refunds the embedded ETH to the owner.

## Rationale

This design intentionally embeds ETH directly within the ERC-721 contract rather than relying on wrapped tokens, external vaults, or delegated custody, in order to minimize trust assumptions and avoid accounting fragmentation.

Redemption of embedded ETH is performed exclusively through token burn, ensuring that value recovery is inseparable from the destruction of the non-fungible state. This eliminates ambiguity around partial withdrawals or shared ownership and keeps the lifecycle of value explicit and deterministic.

The proposal preserves full ERC-721 compatibility to ensure interoperability with existing tooling, wallets, and marketplaces, while extending the standard with minimal additional surface area.

By constraining value redemption to a single, explicit lifecycle transition (burn), the design prioritizes clarity, safety, and predictability over composability or financial flexibility.


## Security Considerations
Implementations must protect against reentrancy on refunds and ensure only the token owner can withdraw embedded ETH.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Clarify burn-based ETH redemption semantics

ERCS/erc-8060.md, after:

---
eip: 8060
title: Native ETH embedding in NFTs
description: Enables each ERC-721 token to natively hold and redeem verifiable ETH balance within its own contract logic.
author: TEN.IO Meta (@ten-io-meta) <ten.io.meta@gmail.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8060-ierc721value-native-eth-embedding/25979
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-10-26
requires: 721
---

## Abstract
This proposal introduces `IERC721Value`, an extension to [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) that lets each non-fungible token natively hold and later redeem ETH. Unlike wrapped or delegated designs, the ETH is accounted for directly within the NFT contract.

## Motivation
ERC-721 provides a standard for non-fungible identity and ownership, but does not define a way to bind native ETH value to that identity in a non-custodial and irreversible manner. As a result, value-bearing NFT designs today rely on external vaults, wrapped assets, or delegated custody, fragmenting the economic model and increasing trust assumptions.

This proposal introduces a primitive that allows native ETH to be embedded directly within the lifecycle of an ERC-721 token, where the only way to reclaim that value is by destroying the non-fungible state itself. This enables patterns that are not well supported by existing standards.

Specifically, this ERC unlocks:

- Non-fungible assets with a guaranteed intrinsic value floor, independent of secondary markets.
- Rights, licenses, or permits whose economic collateral is inseparable from the non-fungible identity that defines them.
- Non-custodial escrows or guarantees represented as transferable NFTs, redeemable only through burn.
- Long-term value containers where liquidity is intentionally constrained and recovery requires explicit state destruction.

Potential actors interested in this primitive include creators and publishers of value-backed digital or physical assets, systems issuing licenses or certifications with economic guarantees, and applications requiring simple, non-custodial value escrow tied to unique identifiers.

The goal of this ERC is not to prescribe a specific application, but to define a reusable and application-agnostic mechanism for binding non-fungible identity and irreversible native ETH value within Ethereum.

## Specification
This ERC extends [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) and adds:
- `valueOf(uint256 tokenId) → uint256`: returns the ETH embedded for a token.
- `mintWithValue(address to, uint256 tokenId)` (**payable**): mints a token embedding `msg.value`.
- `burn(uint256 tokenId)`: burns a token and refunds the embedded ETH to the owner.

## Rationale

This design intentionally embeds ETH directly within the ERC-721 contract rather than relying on wrapped tokens, external vaults, or delegated custody, in order to minimize trust assumptions and avoid accounting fragmentation.

Redemption of embedded ETH is performed exclusively through token burn, ensuring that value recovery is inseparable from the destruction of the non-fungible state. This eliminates ambiguity around partial withdrawals or shared ownership and keeps the lifecycle of value explicit and deterministic.
Redemption is restricted to the token owner through standard ERC-721 burn authorization semantics, ensuring that value recovery cannot be initiated by third parties.

The proposal preserves full ERC-721 compatibility to ensure interoperability with existing tooling, wallets, and marketplaces, while extending the standard with minimal additional surface area.

By constraining value redemption to a single, explicit lifecycle transition (burn), the design prioritizes clarity, safety, and predictability over composability or financial flexibility.


## Security Considerations
Implementations must protect against reentrancy on refunds and ensure only the token owner can withdraw embedded ETH.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
